--- PAGE 1 ---
Certified CMMC
Professional
(CCP)
--- PAGE 2 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Part Number: 093200
Course Edition: 2.3
Acknowledgements
PROJECT TEAM
Authors Instructional Design Production
James Goepel, Esq. Tamara Hagen Michelle Farney
Chris Golden Laurie A. Perry Brian Sullivan
Tara Lemieux Brian S. Wilson
Matthew Titcombe
Amy Starzynski Coddens
Notices
DISCLAIMER
While Logical Operations, Inc. takes care to ensure the accuracy and quality of these materials, we cannot guarantee their
accuracy, and all materials are provided without any warranty whatsoever, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The name used in the data files for this course is that of a fictitious company. Any
resemblance to current or future companies is purely coincidental. We do not believe we have used anyone's name in creating this
course, but if we have, please notify us and we will change the name in the next revision of the course. Logical Operations is an
independent provider of integrated training solutions for individuals, businesses, educational institutions, and government agencies.
The use of screenshots, photographs of another entity's products, or another entity's product name or service in this book is for
editorial purposes only. No such use should be construed to imply sponsorship or endorsement of the book by nor any affiliation of
such entity with Logical Operations. This courseware may contain links to sites on the Internet that are owned and operated by third
parties (the "External Sites"). Logical Operations is not responsible for the availability of, or the content located on or through, any
External Site. Please contact Logical Operations if you have any concerns regarding such links or External Sites.
TRADEMARK NOTICES
Logical Operations and the Logical Operations logo are trademarks of Logical Operations, Inc. and its affiliates. All other product
and service names used may be common law or registered trademarks of their respective proprietors.
Copyright © 2021, 2022, 2025 Logical Operations, Inc. All rights reserved. Screenshots used for illustrative purposes are the
property of the software proprietor. This publication, or any part thereof, may not be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, storage in an information retrieval system, or otherwise, without
express written permission of Logical Operations, 1150 University Avenue, Suite 20, Rochester, NY 14607, 1-800-456-4677 in the
United States and Canada, 1-585-350-7000 in all other countries. Logical Operations’ World Wide Web site is located at
www.logicaloperations.com.
This book conveys no rights in the software or other products about which it was written; all use or licensing of such software or
other products is the responsibility of the user according to terms and conditions of the owner. Do not make illegal copies of books
or software. If you believe that this book, related materials, or any other Logical Operations materials are being reproduced or
transmitted without permission, please call 1-800-456-4677 in the United States and Canada, 1-585-350-7000 in all other countries.
--- PAGE 3 ---
The CMMC-AB Approved Training Materials (CATM) logo signifies that this content was developed by a CMMC-AB Approved Publishing
Partner (APP — formerly Licensed Publishing Partner (LPP)) for a CMMC-AB certification program. It also signifies that the content has been
reviewed by a third party, ProCert Labs, LLC to validate that all certification exam objectives have been covered within this content. The
CMMC-AB has not reviewed or approved the accuracy of the contents of this training material and specifically disclaims any warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The CMMC-AB makes no guarantee concerning the success of persons using any such
“approved” or other training material in order to prepare for any CMMC-AB certification exam.
CMMC-AB Certified Professional V.2
For more information about the CMMC-AB Certification Programs, visit us at https://cmmcab.org.
--- PAGE 4 ---

--- PAGE 5 ---
Certified CMMC
Professional (CCP)
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply
CHAIN.........cccceeeeeeseecssssseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeasssseeeeeeeeseeeeseaaees 1
Topic A: Identify Threats to the Defense Supply Chain.................... 2
Topic B: Identify Regulatory Responses against Threats................ 12
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information..................0 49
Topic A: Identify Sensitive Information..................::ccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 50
Topic B: Manage the Sensitive Information...............::::csssseees 68
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC.......... 119
Topic A: Describe the CMMC Model Architecture................cc0e 120
Topic B: Define the CMMC Program and Its Ecosystem................ 138
Topic C: Define Self-ASSESSMENMS...........ccccccceeessestseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 175
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsiblilities.................. 191
Topic A: Identify Responsibilities of the CCP...............::csssseeees 192
Topic B: Demonstrate Appropriate Ethics and Behavior............... 203
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment
BOUNCATICS...........:cccceseeeeeeeeseeeeeeesseeeeeeeseeesseeeeesees 215
--- PAGE 6 ---
| Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) |
Topic A: Use the CMMC Assessment Scope Documentation.................. 216
Topic B: Get Oriented to the OSC Environment................::::cccccccssseeeees 232
Topic C: Determine How Sensitive Information Moves.............:::::::000 258
Topic D: Identify Systems in SCOPE... ceeeeeeseeeeeeseeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 278
Topic E: Limit SCOPC.............:ccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeens 290
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC. ............cccccccssssseeeeeseessseeeeeeeeees 301
Topic A: Foster a Mature Cybersecurity Culture............ccssssssseeeeeeeees 302
Topic B: Evaluate REadiness..............::ccsscccccesessssseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeessenaseeeeeesees 315
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence.................. 331
Topic A: Determine EVIdCNCe.............::::ccccccessssseeeeeeeesensseeeeesseeaseeeeeseeees 332
Topic B: Assess the Practices Using the CMMC Assessment Guides....... 346
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1.................. 375
Topic A: Identify CMMC Level 1 Domains and Practices.....................00 376
Topic B: Perform a CMMC Level 1 Gap AnalySis.............::ccccsssssssseeeeeeees 397
Topic C: Assess CMMC Level 1 Practices................:::ccccccceesseeesssssssseeeens 414
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices................cccccseesseeee 421
Topic A: Identify CMMC Level 2 PractiCes............cccccccccscsssssssssssseeeeeeeeees 422
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessmentt...............:0002 441
Topic A: Identify Assessment Roles and Responsibilities..................006 442
Topic B: Plan and Prepare the Assessmen..............::::::::ssscceeeeeeeeeeeeseees 455
Topic C: Conduct the ASSCSSMeN1.............::::cccecsesssssssssseeesesseeeeeeeeeeeeees 470
Topic D: Report the Assessment ReSullts............cccccccsssssssssssseeeeeeeeeeeeeees 491
Topic E: Conduct the CMMC POA&M Close-Out Assessment...........000 498
Appendix A: Evidence Collection Approach for CMMC Level 1
ad = (011 (0) - ee 509
--- PAGE 7 ---
| Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) |
Appendix B: Additional Documentation for CCPS.......c.ccccceccecceceeeceeeee. 513
Appendix C: Mapping Course Content to the CCP Exam eeceecccccccocceccees. 517
SOLUTIONS... eee eeecescscesseseesessecsessessessceseesuuseessestussestuseusassessessesseseeeses 519
GIOSSALY......eeeeceecescescescescesteseeseusessessesseesstseuseestestessustuseusausausensersecsesees 543
INGOX. oo. eesessseeeecessesseestessesseeseuseussessessaeeasessuseesacestusaessussuuseasesssessecesceses 553
| Table of Contents |
--- PAGE 8 ---

--- PAGE 9 ---
About This Course
The Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC), managed by The Cyber AB
(CyberAB.org; formerly the CMMC Accreditation Body or the CMMC-AB), is a program
through which an organization's cybersecurity program maturity is measured by their initial
and ongoing compliance with applicable cybersecurity practices, as well as their integration
of corresponding policies and plans into their overall business operations. Once rule-making
has concluded and CMMC 2.0 has been implemented, all organizations providing products
or services to the United States Department of Defense (DoD) must comply with the
requirements of their applicable CMMC Level.
This course prepares students for the Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) certification,
which authorizes the holder to use The Cyber AB Certified CMMC Professional logo, to
participate as an Assessment Team Member under the supervision of a Lead Assessor, and
to be listed in the CMMC Marketplace. The CCP certification is also prerequisite for the
Certified CMMC Assessor (CCA) certification.
IMPORTANT NOTE TO STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS REGARDING DELTA
MATERIALS
Logical Operations' CCP and CCA courseware is accredited as CMMC-AB Approved
Training Materials (CATM). The CATM curriculum aligns with the official CCP and CCA
exam blueprints and examinations currently available from the Cyber AB and its subsidiary,
the CMMC Assessors and Instructors Certification Organization (CAICO). Therefore, the
curriculum also aligns with official documents as they existed at the time the CAICO
developed the blueprints and exams.
Since the release of the blueprints, examinations, and accredited curriculum, the DoD has
issued the final CMMC program rule (32 CFR Part 170 — see https://
www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/10/15/2024-22905/cybersecurity-
maturity-model-certification-cmmc-program). There are several differences, or deltas,
between the content of the final rule (and other associated documents) and the content of
the current examinations. As just one example, in the final rule, CCP now stands for
"CMMC Certified Professional." There are many more substantive changes.
The primary responsibility of approved CMMC publishing and training partners is to
prepare candidates for success on the CCP and CCA exams. Because the CATM curriculum
prepares candidates for the current versions of the examinations, the curriculum will remain
aligned with the official blueprints and examinations until such time as the CAICO updates
them, or provides additional guidance.
To support the ecosystem during the Delta period between publication of the final rule and
the CAICO's release of updated blueprints and examinations, the DoD and CAICO are
providing Delta training and an online Delta test for individuals who have already
successfully completed CCP or CCA certification exams. This material is available by login
at The Cyber AB website.
--- PAGE 10 ---
| Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) |
During the Delta period, a candidate's process for completing the certification exam requirements 1s:
1. Take official CCP or CCA training from Approved Training Partners (ATPs) using official
CATM content.
2. Pass the official examination.
ad
Review the Delta training materials by logging in to CyberAB.org and accessing your dashboard.
4. Complete the online Delta test while logged in to CyberAB.org. This only needs to be completed
once.
Course Description
Target Student
This course is a prerequisite for the Certified CMMC Professional program, and it prepares students
for the Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) certification exam. Students might consider taking this
course to learn how to perform CMMC certification readiness checks within their own organization,
or as a consultant to other Organizations Seeking Certification (OSC). The CCP certification is also
a required step toward becoming a Certified CMMC Assessor (CCA), so students might take this
course to begin down the path toward CCA certification.
Course Prerequisites
To ensure your success in this course, you should have some foundational education or experience
in cybersecurity, such as:
¢ College degree in a cyber or information technical field with 2+ years of experience; or
¢ 2+ years of equivalent experience (including military) in a cyber, information technology, or
assessment field.
The Cyber AB and DoD have established specific requirements for those who wish to pursue CCP
or CCA certification. Refer to The Cyber AB website (https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/
Ecosystem-roles/Assessors) for official requirements and process information.
Course Objectives
In this course, you will learn about the CMMC Model, framework, context, and application within
the DoD, as well as the expectations and requirements imposed upon organizations that do business
with the DoD. It will also help students to identify threats to cybersecurity and privacy within an
IoT ecosystem and implement appropriate countermeasures.
You will:
¢ Identify the threats to the Defense Supply Chain and the established regulations and standards
for managing the risk.
¢ Identify the sensitive information that needs to be protected within the Defense Supply Chain
and how to manage it.
* Describe how the CMMC Model ensures compliance with federal acquisitions regulations.
¢ Identify responsibilities of the Certified CMMC Professional, including appropriate ethical
behavior.
¢ Establish the Certification and Assessment scope boundaries for evaluating the systems that
protect regulated information.
¢ Prepare the OSC for an Assessment by evaluating readiness.
¢ Use the CMMC Assessment Guides to determine and assess the Evidence for practices.
¢ Implement and evaluate practices required to meet CMMC Level 1.
¢ Identify the practices required to meet CMMC Level 2.
¢ AsaCCP, work through the CMMC Assessment process.
| About This Course |
--- PAGE 11 ---
| Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) |
The CHOICE Home Screen
Logon and access information for your CHOICE environment will be provided with your class
experience. The CHOICE platform is your entry point to the CHOICE learning experience, of
which this course manual is only one part.
On the CHOICE Home screen, you can access the CHOICE Course screens for your specific
courses. Visit the CHOICE Course screen both during and after class to make use of the world of
support and instructional resources that make up the CHOICE experience.
Each CHOICE Course screen will give you access to the following resources:
¢ Classroom: A link to your training provider's classroom environment.
¢ eBook: An interactive electronic version of the printed book for your course.
¢ Files: Any course files available to download.
¢ Checklists: Step-by-step procedures and general guidelines you can use as a reference during
and after class.
¢ Assessment: A course assessment for your self-assessment of the course content.
¢ Social media resources that enable you to collaborate with others in the learning community
using professional communications sites such as LinkedIn or microblogging tools such as
Twitter.
Depending on the nature of your course and the components chosen by your learning provider, the
CHOICE Course screen may also include access to elements such as:
¢ LogicalLABs, a virtual technical environment for your course.
¢ Various partner resources related to the courseware.
* Related certifications or credentials.
¢ A link to your training provider's website.
¢ Notices from the CHOICE administrator.
¢ Newsletters and other communications from your learning provider.
¢ Mentoring services.
Visit your CHOICE Home screen often to connect, communicate, and extend your learning
experience!
How To Use This Book
As You Learn
This book is divided into lessons and topics, covering a subject or a set of related subjects. In most
cases, lessons are arranged in order of increasing proficiency.
The results-oriented topics include relevant and supporting information you need to master the
content. Each topic has various types of activities designed to enable you to solidify your
understanding of the informational material presented in the course. Information is provided for
reference and reflection to facilitate understanding and practice.
Data files for various activities as well as other supporting files for the course are available by
download from the CHOICE Course screen. In addition to sample data for the course exercises, the
course files may contain media components to enhance your learning and additional reference
materials for use both during and after the course.
Checklists of procedures and guidelines can be used during class and as after-class references when
you're back on the job and need to refresh your understanding.
At the back of the book, you will find a glossary of the definitions of the terms and concepts used
throughout the course. You will also find an index to assist in locating information within the
instructional components of the book. In many electronic versions of the book, you can click links
on key words in the content to move to the associated glossary definition, and on page references in
the index to move to that term in the content. To return to the previous location in the document
after clicking a link, use the appropriate functionality in your PDF viewing software.
| About This Course |
--- PAGE 12 ---
| Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) |
As You Review
Any method of instruction is only as effective as the time and effort you, the student, are willing to
invest in it. In addition, some of the information that you learn in class may not be important to you
immediately, but it may become important later. For this reason, we encourage you to spend some
time reviewing the content of the course after your time in the classroom.
As a Reference
The organization and layout of this book make it an easy-to-use resource for future reference.
Taking advantage of the glossary, index, and table of contents, you can use this book as a first
source of definitions, background information, and summaries.
Course Icons
Watch throughout the material for the following visual cues.
Icon Description
A Note provides additional information, guidance, or hints about a topic or task.
¥ k
*
—
Lf
Ian
—
A Caution note makes you aware of places where you need to be particularly careful
with your actions, settings, or decisions so that you can be sure to get the desired
results of an activity or task.
Checklists provide job aids you can use after class as a reference to perform skills
| back on the job. Access checklists from your CHOICE Course screen.
Social notes remind you to check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to
= interact with the CHOICE community using social media.
| About This Course |
--- PAGE 13 ---
Managing Risk within the
Defense Supply Chain
Lesson Time: 3 hours
Lesson Introduction
As someone interested in becoming a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP), you are aware
that the threats to the Defense Supply Chain continue to increase, both in numbers and
complexity. This risk involves sensitive information not only in government systems, but
also in systems operated by companies that develop and deliver products, services, and
solutions to the federal government and throughout every link of the global supply chain. It
is essential for the Certified CMMC Professional to know how to identify and manage these
risks to sensitive information following the pertinent regulations and the documented
standards and best practices.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Identify threats to the Defense Supply Chain.
¢ Identify regulations and standards that guide risk management for the Defense Supply
Chain.
--- PAGE 14 ---
2 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Identify Threats to the Defense Supply Chain
It is critical to identify and mitigate against potential threats to the Defense Supply Chain. In this
topic, you will identify why the federal government is changing its expectations on managing those
risks.
The Defense Industrial Base (DIB)
Y Defense Industrial Base (DIB): The worldwide industrial complex that enables research and
development, as well as design, production, delivery, and maintenance of military weapons
systems, subsystems, and components or parts, to meet U.S. military requirements.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms, DIB Sector Specific Plan, DHS CISA
° Includes:
¢ Department of Defense (DoD) components.
¢ More than 100,000 companies and subcontractors.
° Companies providing incidental materials and services.
° Government-owned facilities operated by the government or contractors.
° Part of the Defense Supply Chain (DSC).
e DSC extends beyond the DIB.
° Examples: office equipment, food, janitor services
e Vast and complex.
e Spans the globe. * Down all the way to “Mom & Pop” small businesses.
¢ Includes supporting IT companies.
e Modern weapon systems require:
e An army of defense contractors.
° Years of effort to manage and field these systems.
ii | |
Figure 1-1: Thousands of companies throughout the world provide goods and services within the
vast and complex Defense Supply Chain.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 15 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 3
Complexity of the Defense Supply Chain
° DoD expectations for supply chain contractors:
¢ Defense contractors will provide high quality goods and services.
¢ DoD interests are costs, schedule and quality of those goods and service
* CMMC makes cybersecurity foundational to all acquisitions.
e F-35 as an example:
Production takes years.
1400+ suppliers across 45 states and Puerto Rico.
Suppliers extend to overseas countries and companies.
Purchased by 13 different nations.
Support systems add additional DIB companies:
Fuel
Maintenance
Runways
Ships
Simulators
Air traffic control
Communications
Munitions
° All built by different companie
Figure 1-2: Systems such as the F-35 stealth fighter have a complex supply chain, involve
numerous suppliers, and span many different companies and countries.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 16 ---
4 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Risks to the Defense Supply Chain
* Adversaries’ motivations to obtain our technology:
° Learn our capabilities to figure out how to defeat us.
* Steal our technology to avoid costs of their own R&D efforts.
* Minimize the time that the U.S. has military technological superiority.
* Potentially easier to hack a defense contractor than the military itself.
* Not all defense contractors have military grade cybersecurity technologies and processes.
° F-35 blueprints exist in the DoD and the DIB.
* Any given contractor might have only a portion, but that can still help an enemy if stolen.
US F-35 Chinese J-31
Figure 1-3: There are many sources of risk in the Defense Supply Chain.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 17 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 5
Ir%srmation Flow between Prime Contractors and
¢ Prime contractors receive contracts from the government.
¢ Take specific portions of these contracts and award them to various
subcontractors via a teaming agreement.
e Shared data might not be protected well and is therefore vulnerable.
° For example, F-35 prime may share sensitive information to
subcontractor to build engines:
¢ Performance characteristics.
¢ How much thrust will the engine need to produce.
e Integration details.
¢ How will the engine connect to the airframe
and be controlled by the pilot.
¢ Schedule information.
¢ Highlights when the airplane will be operational.
¢ All this data may be unclassified, but it:
° Is sensitive in nature.
¢ Is highly valuable to our adversaries.
e Needs to be protected.
Figure 1-4: Information is at risk as it moves between the government, Prime contractors, and
subcontractors.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 18 ---
6 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The Need to Protect Information
* Annual estimated loss of Intellectual Property (IP) from the USA
° $600 BILLION. ° Loss of our IP:
° Puts war fighter lives in danger.
* Diminishes our global competitive advantage.
| P Lea kage
Figure 1-5: There are numerous consequences due to the loss of intellectual property.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 19 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 7
Case Studies
° US F-35
e 5th generation strike/fighter aircraft
° Stealthy
° Super cruise (supersonic without afterburner)
¢ High-tech platform - sensor to shooter
° Costs:
° $94-122M per copy
¢ $1.5T over course of 55-year life span
° Chinese J-31
¢ China stole pieces of F-35 data from multiple contractors.
e Put the puzzle together.
° China saved time and money for R&D, getting a prototype sooner.
° That monetary savings can potentially be used to further hurt U.S. businesses
(e.g., drive down commodity prices).
Shortened time in which U.S. had technical advantage in the air.
Figure 1-6: It is believed that the J-31 stealth fighter owes much of its design to information
leaked from the F-35 supply chain.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 20 ---
8 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Philosophical Change to Securing the Nation's Data
° Increased expectations for accountability and integrity about cybersecurity.
° Transparency between traditionally isolated entities.
° This requires a shift:
° From trusting contractor’s self-attestations and plans of action to fix gaps.
° To requiring an independent, on-site validation of full compliance.
° Changed expectations for IT teams.
° Need to understand the information flow to know how to protect the information.
° This also requires a shift:
° From a “protect the system” mindset.
° Toa “protect the information” mindset.
° DoD's philosophical changes led to the creation of the CMMC program.
Understand the
information flow
SS
&
Expe
cations ms
of \T tea
Validation
Figure 1-7: CMMC represents a philosophical change to securing the nation's data.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 21 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 9
The Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC)
Program
° DoD initiative to verify defense contractors' cybersecurity preparedness and effectiveness.
° Program to standardize cybersecurity implementation across the DIB.
° Defines how a high performing, cybersecure organization acts.
° Collects existing cybersecurity standards and best practices.
° Requires a trained, independent assessment conducted on a defense contractor's cybersecurity posture.
° Consists of levels designed to fit contractor's type of sensitive information.
¢ Promotes cybersecurity maturity.
° Provides assurance that the DIB can protect sensitive information within a complex supply chain:
¢ Accounts for information flow down to subcontractors.
CMMC Program CMMC Model 2.0 All new contracts will include a
Kickoff released CMMC requirement
After
2019 2020 2021 2 Rulemaking
CMMC Model 1.0 released
Ye
Rulemaking (9-24 months)
Figure 1-8: All new defense contracts will include a CMMC requirement after the rulemaking for
CMMC 2.0 is complete.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 22 ---
10 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Cultural Change/Shift
° Cybersecurity as the cornerstone of the organization’s culture.
° Factored into decision-making.
e Resourced as a priority.
° Built into governance structures.
* Cybersecurity baseline for DoD contract eligibility.
° Foundational part of decision-making in defense acquisition.
° Deliverable quality and other performance indicators only effective
when the information is secure.
Figure 1-9: Good cybersecurity must become a significant part of the organization's culture and
is a requirement to be awarded DoD contracts.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 23 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 11
ACTIVITY 1-1
Identifying Threats to the Defense Supply Chain
Scenario
You are working for an organization that has a contract with the DoD or desires to be a DoD
contractor. You need to better understand the threats to sensitive information and what happens
when a contractor fails to protect this information.
1. Why is the Defense Supply Chain at risk?
2. How does CMMC encourage a different way of thinking about cybersecurity
and protecting sensitive information within the Defense Supply Chain?
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic A
--- PAGE 24 ---
12 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC B
Identify Regulatory Responses against Threats
Through the years, numerous regulations and standards have been established to safeguard
information in the Defense Supply Chain. In this topic, you will examine some of the regulations
and standards that are designed to secure the nation's defense data.
Intellectual Property
Y Intellectual Property (IP) : A work or invention, such as a design, process, computer program, or
trade secret developed through work of the mind or intellect, which may be protected through
legal mechanisms such as patent, copyright, and trademark, or by taking steps to keep the
information secret.
° Federal contracting scenarios typically involve
various types and sources of IP.
¢ Numerous regulations have been put into place
to protect this IP.
Figure 1-10: Many government contracts involve the handling of information that should be
protected, even though it is not considered classified information.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 25 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 13
Protected Information in a Government Contracting Scenario
° Acompany may employ different types of IP when
doing business with the government. Internal IP
¢ Internal IP |
° The company’s own methods, techniques, inventions.
¢ External IP may come from:
° Partners outside the government.
° Generally protected by contracts between the
parties, such as license agreements, NDAs,
and other contract terms.
° Federal government
° Governed and protected through contract clauses
with the third-party agencies involved.
* Commonly covers:
° Federal Contract Information (FCI).
° Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI).
Figure 1-11: Organizations may handle internal or external intellectual property when doing
business with the government.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 26 ---
14 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Legal, Regulatory, & Policy (LRP) Drivers
Policies and regulations flow from laws.
To ensure
proper actions,
laws
Legal Authority
° Legislation
° Executive Orders
are interpreted and
implemented through
regulations
Regulatory Authority
° Code of Federal Regulations
° Federal Acquisition Regulations
° Department Level Regulation Supplements
Figure 1-12: Laws, regulations, and policies are behind the compliance requirements that
government contractors must adhere to.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 27 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 15
Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)
* Chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
° Also known as:
° 48 CFR.
* Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR).
* Provides uniform policies and procedures that apply to all Executive Branch departments and agencies
regarding acquisitions.
Acquisitions: The acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies or services
(including construction) by and for the use of the Federal Government through purchase or
lease, whether the supplies or services are already in existence or must be created,
developed, demonstrated, and evaluated.
Source: 48 CFR § 2.101
° As a Certified CMMC Professional, you must have some familiarity with FAR:
* Documents rules that government contractors are subject to.
* Takes priority over the DFARS and other supplements.
* Provides a consistent set of baseline requirements that apply to all solicitations.
Figure 1-13: FAR are regulations that apply to acquisitions involving any department of the
federal government, not just those for the Department of Defense.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 28 ---
16 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS)
e Asupplement of the FAR:
° Called Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement or DFARS.
° Includes policies and procedures that:
° Apply only to acquisition activities by the Department of Defense.
° Are administered by the Department of Defense.
° As a Certified CMMC Professional, you must have some familiarity with DFARS:
° Know that it covers DoD acquisitions.
° Be familiar with clauses that apply directly to contractors.
° For most contactors, it is not necessary to know everything documented in DFARS.
Figure 1-14: DFARS provides regulations that apply specifically to acquisitions involving the
Department of Defense.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 29 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 17
Federal Contract Information (FCl) LRP Drivers
Legal Authority
éal * 2002 Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Amended in 2014 as Federal Information Security Modernization Act ° This law requires government to
protect its sensitive information
(such as FCI).
Regulatory Authority |
* 48 CFR § 52.204-21 - Basic Safeguarding of ° These regulations explain how to
Covered Contractor Information Systems adhere to the law, as applied to a
contractor’s information systems.
Section 52 of the FAR
is commonly called
FAR 52.
eal = Recommended reading for professional development, especially for Assessors
Figure 1-15: These are the legal and regulatory authorities that specify the handling
requirements for FCI.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 30 ---
18 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
What FAR 52 Covers in Regard to Protecting FCI
° FAR 52 (48 CFR §52.204-21) covers:
* Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
* Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI.
* Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
Figure 1-16: FAR 52 is your primary source of information on handling requirements for FCI.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 31 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 19
Definitions Provided in FAR 52
° FAR 52 (48 CFR § 52.204-21) covers:
(- Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations. )
¢ Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI.
¢ Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
a) Definitions. As used in this clause -
* Covered contractor information system
means an information system that is owned
or operated by a contractor that processes,
stores, or transmits Federal contract
information.
e Federal contract information means
information, not intended for public release,
that is provided by or generated for the
Government under a contract to develop or
deliver a product or service to the
Government, but not including information
provided by the Government to the public
(such as on public Web sites) or simple
transactional information, such as necessary
to process payments.
Information means any communication or
representation of knowledge such as facts,
data, or opinions, in any medium or form,
including textual, numerical, graphic,
cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual
(Committee on National Security Systems
Instruction (CNSSI) 4009).
Information system means a discrete set of
information resources organized for the
collection, processing, maintenance, use,
sharing, dissemination, or disposition of
information (44 U.S.C. 3502).
Safeguarding means measures or controls that
are prescribed to protect information systems.
Figure 1-17: FAR 52 begins with definitions of terms used in the regulations, such as Federal
Contract Information (FCI).
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 32 ---
20 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Safeguarding FCI as Outlined in FAR 52
° FAR 52 (48 CFR § 52.204-21) covers:
¢ Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
¢ Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI. )
¢ Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
b) Safeguarding requirements and procedures.
1) The Contractor shall apply the following basic safeguarding requirements and procedures to protect covered contractor information systems. Requirements and procedures for basic safeguarding of covered contractor
information systems shall include, at a
minimum, the following security controls:
i. Limit information system access to
authorized users, processes acting on
behalf of authorized users, or devices
(including other information systems).
ii. Limit information system access to the
types of transactions and functions that
authorized users are permitted to execute.
iii. Verify and control/limit connections to and
use of external information systems.
iv. Control information posted or processed on
publicly accessible information systems.
v. Identify information system users, processes
acting on behalf of users, or devices.
vi.
Authenticate (or verify) the identities of
those users, processes, or devices, as a
prerequisite to allowing access to
organizational information systems.
Figure 1-18: Six of the 15 requirements and procedures that must be implemented to protect FCI
per FAR 52.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 33 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 21
More FCI Safeguarding Requirements
° FAR 52 (48 CFR § 52.204-21) covers:
° Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
( Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI.)
° Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
—
vil. Sanitize or destroy information system media | xi.
containing Federal Contract Information
before disposal or release for reuse.
vill. Limit physical access to organizational xii.
information systems, equipment, and the
respective operating environments to xiii.
authorized individuals.
ix. Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity;
maintain audit logs of physical access; and control and manage physical access devices.
xiv.
x. Monitor, control, and protect organizational — yy,
communications (i.e., information transmitted
or received by organizational information
systems) at the external boundaries and key
internal boundaries of the information
systems.
Implement subnetworks for publicly accessible
system components that are physically or
logically separated from internal networks.
Identify, report, and correct information and
information system flaws in a timely manner.
Provide protection from malicious code at
appropriate locations within organizational
information systems.
Update malicious code protection mechanisms
when new releases are available.
Perform periodic scans of the information
system and real-time scans of files from external
sources as files are downloaded, opened, or
executed.
Figure 1-19: Nine of the 15 requirements and procedures that must be implemented to protect
FCI per FAR 52.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 34 ---
22 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
FCI Safeguarding Requirements Beyond Those in FAR 52
° FAR 52 (48 CFR § 52.204-21) covers:
° Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
( Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI. )
° Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
2) Other requirements. This clause does not
relieve the Contractor of any other specific
safeguarding requirements specified by
Federal agencies and departments relating to
covered contractor information systems
generally or other Federal safeguarding
requirements for controlled unclassified
information (CUI) as established by Executive
Order 13556.
Figure 1-20: The contractor might be subject to safeguarding requirements beyond those
specified in FAR 52.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 35 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 23
Subcontractor Responsibilities Under FAR 52
° FAR 52 (48 CFR § 52.204-21) covers:
* Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
* Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard FCI.
(* Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor. )
———
c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the
substance of this clause, including this
paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this
contract (including subcontracts for the
acquisition of commercial items, other than
commercially available off-the-shelf items), in
which the subcontractor may have Federal
contract information residing in or transiting
through its information system.
Figure 1-21: Contractors are required to inform their subcontractors of requirements that will
flow down to them.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 36 ---
24 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
%\SQO
i=" Jed Unclassified Information (CUI) LRP Drivers
Legal Authority
& * 2002 Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
Amended in 2014
& ° Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information
(4 November 2010)
Regulatory Authority él 32 CFR Part 2002, Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) ¢ Government must protect its sensitive
information (e.g., FCI and CUI).
° Standardized handling of protected information
that is unclassified.
CUI is subject to laws governing FCI, as well as
those specifically addressing CUI.
¢ These regulations:
° Explain how to adhere to Executive Order 13556.
° Stipulate and create overall requirements,
governance, and management of CUI.
° Appointed NARA to oversee CUI policy.
* Stood up ISOO, which publishes CUI notices.
Policy
° National Archive & Records Administration (NARA) Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) CUI Notices
reo ~~
B10
%\SOO
CUI Notice
* CUI notices are considered federal policy.
Policies stipulate that CUI must be protected in
accordance with:
° NIST SP 800-171
° NIST SP 800-172
° NIST SP 800-171A
Figure 1-22: Legal authorities, regulatory authorities, and policies that specify the handling
requirements for CUI are shown here.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 37 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 25
NARA ISOO
National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)
° Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO)
° Contained within NARA.
¢ Responsible to the President for policy and oversight of:
° The U.S. government’s security classification system.
@ 'SOO ° The National Industrial Security Program.
SA * Receives policy and program guidance from the National Security Council (NSC).
OVERSIGHT OFFICE
° Has three components:
° Classification Management Staff
Develop security classification policies for classifying, declassifying, and safeguarding
national security information generated in Government and industry.
° Operations Staff
Evaluate the effectiveness of the security classification programs established by
Government and industry to protect information vital to our national security
interests.
* Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Staff
Develop standardized CUI policies and procedures that appropriately protect sensitive
information through effective data access and control measures.
° Serves as the authority on protection of CUI.
Figure 1-23: NARA's Information Security Oversight Office is the authority on the protection of
Cul.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 38 ---
26 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
NIST
* National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
° Department of Commerce is its parent agency.
Has put forth numerous publications covering policies on:
e Managing cybersecurity in federal systems.
° Specifically covering CUI.
° Its website (nist.gov) provides a portal to publications and resources.
National Institute of
Standards and Technology
Figure 1-24: The NIST publications contain policies on managing cybersecurity within federal
systems, including CUI.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 39 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 27
NIST SP 800-171 Basis in NIST SP 800-53
Special National Institute
e NIST SP 800-53 Publication of Standards and
* Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations. Technology
° Serves as a catalogue of security controls recommended for
federal information systems.
e NIST SP 800-171 federal —>
° Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal systems
Systems and Organizations.
° Created by NIST in conjunction with NARA and the rest of the °
Federal Government in response to Executive Order 13556 and 32 CFR. \
e Uses SP 800-53 as its foundation.
Focus on
nonfederal —>
systems
Figure 1-25: NIST SP 800-53, which provides a catalog of security and privacy controls for all
U.S. Federal information systems except those related to national security, provides the technical
basis for controls documented in NIST SP 800-171, which focuses on the protection of CUI.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 40 ---
28 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
NIST SP 800-171 Focus on Confidentiality
Focuses on Originally
e NIST SP 800-171: protecting the developed to
* Focuses primarily on protecting the confidentiality of CUI. availability protect availability
. . of critical of critical
* Does not emphasize other aspects of cybersecurity, systems. infrastructure,
such as integrity or availability. such as power plants.
¢ Additional frameworks can be used
to protect integrity and availability.
e Examples:
e NIST Cybersecurity Framework
e NIST SP 800-53 rev 5
Focuses on
protecting the
confidentiality
of CUI.
Figure 1-26: With its focus on CUI, NIST SP 800-171 primarily focuses on protecting
confidentiality, so an additional framework such as the NIST Cybersecurity Framework might be
used to ensure that integrity and availability are also thoroughly protected.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 41 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 29
NIST SP 800-171A Assessment Guidelines
° NIST SP 800-171A
* Assessing Security Requirements For Controlled Unclassified Information.
° Provides procedures for assessing the CUI protection
requirements covered by NIST SP 800-171. * “The primary and authoritative guidance on assessing compliance with NIST SP 800-171” (per ISOO CUI Notice 2020-04, para 6). Use
this ——>
to
assess
Figure 1-27: NIST SP 800-171A provides guidelines on assessing whether the controls required
by NIST SP 800-171 have been implemented adequately.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 42 ---
30 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
NIST SP 800-172 Enhanced Security Requirements for CUI
° NIST SP 800-172
e “Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting Controlled
Unclassified Information: A Supplement to NIST SP 800-171”.
¢ Provides federal agencies with enhanced security requirements.
¢ Aims to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of CUI:
e When CUI resides in a nonfederal system and organization.
¢ When the nonfederal organization is not collecting or maintaining
information on behalf of a federal agency or using or operating a
system on behalf of an agency.
¢ Where there are no specific safeguarding requirements for
protecting the CUI prescribed by the authorizing law, regulation,
or government-wide policy for the CUI category listed in the
CUI Registry.
e NIST SP 800-171B incorporated into higher levels during the
development of the CMMC Model.
¢ NIST SP 800-172 made NIST SP 800-171B obsolete.
e NIST SP 800-172 was formerly known as Draft NIST SP 800-171B.
Figure 1-28: NIST SP 800-172 provides protections for integrity and availability not covered in
NIST SP 800-171.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 43 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 31
CMMC LRP Drivers
Legal Authority
Gal -
dal:
CMMC builds upon existing legal authorities,
regulatory authorities, and policies covering FCI
and CUI.
Regulatory Authority
dal:
° DFARS
° Subordinate Regulatory Authority:
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations (DFARS)
° DFARS Clause 252.204-7012
* DFARS Clause 252.204-7019
* DFARS Clause 252.204-7020 | -
* DFARS Clause 252.204-7021
* DoD’s counterpart to FAR 52.
° Contractors should be familiar with the
clauses listed here.
These clauses represent a significant
philosophical change in how the nation’s
data is secured, including the creation of the
CMMC ecosystem.
Policy
° CMMC:
° Is an enhancement and set of constraints
upon NIST SP 800-171/2,
* Subordinate Policies
* Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC)
° DoD Instruction 5200.48, Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
° DOD Instruction 5200.48:
* Policies to improve how CUI is marked,
handled, and managed within DoD.
° Of importance to contractors, as well as
DoD.
Figure 1
CMMC.
-29: These are the legal authorities, regulatory authorities, and policies underlying
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 44 ---
32 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Philosophical Change of Direction to Secure the Nation’s Data
DEC 2017 NOV 2020
NOV 2020
NOV 2020 DFARS Clause 252.204-7012, Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting
* Global self-attestation by contract signature.
° Imposes requirements on how contractors handle CUI.
° Requires compliance with NIST SP 800-171.
* Documented in System Security Plan (SSP) and Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M),
° Self-attest only.
DFARS Provision 252.204-7019, Notice of NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Requirements
* Detailed self-attestation.
° DIB contractors must formally report to DoD a summary score of their NIST SP 800-171 compliance.
* Subject to Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) audits.
DFARS Clause 252.204-7020, NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Requirements
* Defines how the DoD will conduct different types of assessments.
e Government contractors must be assessed for compliance.
DFARS Clause 252.204-7021, Contractor Compliance with the CMMC Level Requirement
* Tiered assessment requirements of cybersecurity based on the sensitivity of the information.
* Enacts Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC).
* Government-recognized assessments for contractors who handle critical national security
information; self-assessments for contractors who do not handle critical information.
° CMMC Model 2.0 released in November 2021; will be implemented after the rulemaking process.
Figure 1-30: Over a few years, these DFARS clauses implemented significant changes in
requirements for securing the nation's data.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 45 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 33
252.204-7012 Covers
DFARS
¢ DFARS 252.204-7012
Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting
Content includes:
Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
Requirements and procedures that a contractor must undertake to safeguard
sensitive information.
Cyber incident reporting requirement, identifying what must happen in the
event of a cyber incident.
Malicious software isolation and submission for analysis.
Media preservation and protection actions.
Access to additional information or equipment necessary for forensic analysis.
Cyber incident damage assessment activities.
DoD safeguarding and use of contractor attributional/proprietary information.
Use and release of contractor attributional/proprietary information not created
by or for DoD.
Use and release of contractor attributional/proprietary information created by
or for DoD.
Requirements to adhere to other applicable laws and regulations.
Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
Figure 1-31: DFARS 252.204-7012 identifies requirements for protecting CDI and reporting
cyber incidents.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 46 ---
34 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
252.204-7019 Covers
° DFARS 252.204-7019
DFARS * Notice of NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Requirements
Notice of NIST ¢ Content includes:
SP 800-171 * Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
DoD :
Assessment * Requirement to have a current assessment score for each covered
Requirements contractor information system relevant to the contract.
° Procedures for verifying or obtaining assessment scores.
Provision 252.204-7019
Figure 1-32: DFARS 252.204-7019 identifies the DoD's cybersecurity assessment requirements.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 47 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 35
252.204-7020 Covers
DFARS
DoD
Assessment
Requirements
Clause
252.204-7020
¢ DFARS 252.204-7020
° DoD Assessment Requirements
° Content includes:
Definitions you need to know to understand the regulations.
Applicability of this regulation to covered contractor information systems,
requiring that they comply with standards set in NIST SP 800-171.
Procedures for obtaining and verifying assessment requirements are met.
Procedures for rebuttal and adjudication of assessment scores.
Regulations regarding who may access assessment scores.
Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
Figure 1-33: DFARS 252.204-7020 identifies procedures through which a DoD cybersecurity
assessment would be performed.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 48 ---
36 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
252.204-7021 Covers
¢ DFARS 252.204-7021
° Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification Requirement.
° Content includes:
° Regulations covered by the CMMC framework.
° Requirement that contractors hold a current CMMC certificate at a level
required by the contract, over the entire duration of the contract.
° CMMC certificate is only current for three years.
° Responsibilities when delegating contract work to a subcontractor.
Figure 1-34: DFARS 252.204-7021 covers the CMMC Model requirement.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 49 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 37
CMMC Background Regulations and Standards
2002 2005
FISMA RMF FedRAMP CMMC
e FISMA
¢ Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 3541
° https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-107hhrg86343/pdf/CHRG-107hhrg86343. pdf
¢ Amended by the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014, Pub L. 113-283.
¢ https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/senate-bill/2521
° Risk Management Framework (RMF)
° NIST Special Publication 800-37, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations
* Originally published (Rev 1) in 2005.
¢ Revision 2 published in 2018.
¢ Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)
° Established by the Office of Management & Budget (OMB) in a memorandum dated 8 Dec 2011.
Figure 1-35: Regulations and standards that provide background for CMMC.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 50 ---
38 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA)
Overview
° Law that requires executive agencies to:
* Plan for security based on risk impact levels (Low, Moderate, and High).
¢ Assign security responsibility to appropriate officials.
¢ Monitor security controls in their systems.
¢ Authorize system processing prior to operations and, periodically, thereafter.
° Applies to:
e Federal agencies.
* State agencies that administer federal programs (e.g., unemployment, student loans, Medicare/Medicaid).
Impact to FCI/CUI
¢ NIST SP 800-53 defines the cybersecurity requirements for FISMA.
* Based on DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process (DITSCAP) controls.
¢ Drove the need for:
° Risk-based policy for cost-effective security within the Federal Government Supply Chain.
° Creation of the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF).
* Creation of 32 CFR Part 2002 - CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI).
¢ Implementing Directive for Executive Order 13556.
Figure 1-36: An overview of Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) and its
impact on protecting sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 51 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 39
Risk Management Framework (RMF)
Overview
° Designed to help Federal agencies meet FISMA requirements (plus other laws/regulations/policies).
¢ Standardized process to follow to secure, authorize, and manage IT systems.
° Two NIST Special Publications:
¢ NIST SP 800-37 Revision 2 - Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations.
° NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations.
Impact to FCI/CUI
e Used with NIST SP 800-53 as the basis for the Government’s design of NIST SP 800-171.
° WARNING:
° NIST RMF, like ISO 27000, is a framework used for organizations to tailor controls to meet their requirements.
¢ However, NIST SP 800-171 is prescribed by the Government.
¢ Can't change controls.
Figure 1-37: An overview of Risk Management Framework (RMF) and its impact on protecting
sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 52 ---
40 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The RMF Process
Prepare cybersecurity strategy at the organization level.
e Establish the context and priorities for managing security risk.
° Categorize information systems.
Select security controls.
* Tailor controls to reduce risk to an acceptable level based on risk assessment. | Saree
Systems
¢ Implement security controls.
° Assess security control implementation. :
. . Monitor Select
¢ Implemented correctly and producing desired outcomes. Controls Controls
Authorize information systems.
¢ Monitor security controls.
e Ensure ongoing effectiveness.
Authorize Implement
Systems Controls
Assess
Controls
Figure 1-38: The iterative and continual process used in RMF.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 53 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 41
Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program
(FedRAMP)
Overview
° Acertification program for Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) who provide the government cloud services.
° Streamlines federal IT procurement of cloud services that meet federal cybersecurity regulatory standards.
¢ "Do once, use many times" framework.
e Standardized approach to security assessment, authorization, and continuous monitoring.
e CSPs can work with multiple agencies without repeating the certification process.
¢ Can be thought of as "cloud FISMA".
° NIST SP 800-53 defines the cybersecurity requirements.
° Independent assessments completed by a third-party organization.
° Promotes the usage of secure cloud services to reduce costs for executive agencies and departments.
Impact to FCI/CUI
* DoD requires FedRAMP Moderate or Higher for CSPs processing, storing, or transmitting CUI for the DIB.
° CMMC created its ecosystem using FedRAMP as a program model.
° DFARS Clause 252.204-7012 specifies:
* Contractors must ensure:
e CSPs meet security requirements equivalent to FedRAMP Moderate.
° CSPs are complying with paragraphs (c) through (g) of 252/204-7012.
° Failure to comply with the latter half means OSC is not compliant with their Incident Response requirements.
Figure 1-39: An overview of Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) and
its impact on protecting sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 54 ---
42 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP
ig Applicable Regulations
Look in the OSC’s contracts with DoD or
related subcontracts for these regulations.
: Based on the
regulations
you find...
CMMC .. identify the
certification items that are
are in scope.
DoD contracts or subcontracts should identify applicable regulations.
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 55 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 43
DoD Cybersecurity Efforts with the DIB (1 of 2)
S
S) ¢ g e ee oS
© > e RS SP ris ee AS WY ee RS
P . Y WP o Sr oO
Cybersecurity Efforts and Functions f fos a Sf wt e oe A rs
o LEO EES / ES /S FS LIKED
CO ae a as £ gi ss
SF OS ¢ ws es eo < COS
Cyber Threat Information and Intelligence Sharing in the DIB
Active partnership between DoD and DIB to share
information/intelligence; manages intel sharing platform, hosts events, maintains comms, and enables info/intel sharing
Xx
Operational arm of DIB Cybersecurity (CS) Program, sharing x
cyber threat info/intelligence, products, and tools to assist DIB
Shares “left of boom” products and tools with DIB 4
D De q a
Assistance to DIB in understanding regulatory requirements x
Oversight of DFARS 252.204-7019/7020, DIBCAC Xx
Oversight of DFARS 252.204-7021, CMMC xX
For more information: https://www.acg.osd.mil/cmmc/docs/DIB-CS-Activities-Placemat_Quad-Chart.pdf
Figure 1-41: The DOD agencies responsible for activities that support Cyber Threat Information
and Intelligence Sharing in the DIB as well as DIB Cybersecurity Requirements and Assessment
Mechanisms are indicated here.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 56 ---
44 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
DoD Cybersecurity Efforts with the DIB (2 of 2)
Cybersecurity Efforts and Functions ‘sS “
(oy
Oversight of DFARS 252.204-7012; management of platform for
voluntary and mandatory reporting; enables efforts to assess x
damage to DoD programs
Single clearinghouse for unclassified Mandatory Incident
Reports (MIR) per DFARS -7012; provides crowd-sourced, non-
attributional reports to DIB on cyber threat information
received from MIRs and voluntary reports
Single clearinghouse for classified incident reports x
Cybersecurity Technical Assistance and Collaboration
Offers vehicle for DoD collaboration with DIB, establishing and
or maintaining relationships; hosts events, sub-working 4
groups, and forums for collaboration
Direct support to DIB through cost-free service offerings
including products, tools, strategies, and events
Targeted support to top-tier DIB for companies categorized as
critical infrastructure
Figure 1-42: The DoD agencies responsible for activities that support Incident Reporting and
Cybersecurity Technical Assistance and Collaboration are indicated here.
Notes
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 57 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 45
ACTIVITY 1-2
Identifying Regulatory Responses against
Threats
Scenario
To evaluate how well an organization complies with regulations, the Certified CMMC Professional
must be familiar with the various regulations that might apply to a particular DoD contract, and
must be able to determine which regulations are applicable.
1. What experience have you had with government contracts and the
regulations that govern them?
2. Which of the following is most clearly associated with a Department of
Defense contract?
O
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
O
FAR
O
DFARS
O
NIST SP 800-171
3. Where would you look for a primary regulation covering the basic
safeguarding of Federal Contract Information?
O
48 CFR 52.204-21 (also known as FAR 52)
O
NARA
O
DFARS 252.204-7012
O
NIST SP 800-53
4. Which DFARS clause identifies the requirement that contractors be CMMC
certified?
O
DFARS Clause 252.204-7012
O
DFARS Clause 252.204-7019
O
DFARS Clause 252.204-7020
2)
DFARS Clause 252.204-7021
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 58 ---
46 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
5. Which standard was created in response to Executive Order 13556 and
focuses on protecting the confidentiality of Controlled Unclassified Information
in nonfederal systems and organizations?
O NIST SP 800-171A
O NIST SP 800-171
O NIST SP 800-53
O NIST SP 800-172
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain | Topic B
--- PAGE 59 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 47
Summary
In this lesson, you identified the risks to national and global security associated with the sensitive
information that is contained, transmitted, processed, and communicated in systems throughout the
Defense Supply Chain. You also identified the laws, regulations, and policies that have been
established to drive compliance toward securing the nation's unclassified defense data.
How does your company manage cybersecurity threats now?
How challenging do you think it will be to create a cybersecurity cultural change
for the contractors that are part of the Defense Supply Chain?
-
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 1: Managing Risk within the Defense Supply Chain |
--- PAGE 60 ---

--- PAGE 61 ---
Handling Sensitive
Information
Lesson Time: 4 hours, 20 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you better understand the threats to the Defense Supply Chain and the regulatory
responses that govern mitigation against such threats, you can delve more deeply into what
exactly is this sensitive information that requires protection and how does it need to be
managed.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Discriminate between sensitive information types.
¢ Manage sensitive information.
--- PAGE 62 ---
50 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPICA
Identify Sensitive Information
It is a matter of national security to ensure that organizations who have contracts with the
Department of Defense (DoD) know what sensitive information is and how they should protect it.
As a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) who may be advising or helping to assess such
organizations, you must be able to discriminate between different types of sensitive information so
you can help to identify how that information should be handled and protected.
Sensitive Information
Sensitive Information: Information where the loss,
misuse, or unauthorized access or modification could
adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of
federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are
entitled under 5 U.S.C. Section 552a (the Privacy Act).
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4 (adapted))
Figure 2-1: An organization's ability to identify sensitive information within their environment
and ensure it is properly protected is a matter of national security.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 63 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 51
What Type of Sensitive Information Do You Have?
Federal Contract Information
Controlled Technical Export Controlled
Information Information
° Types of sensitive information should be specifically defined within a contract, and any documents or
media containing that information must be appropriately marked.
¢ When in doubt, contractors should ask their Primes or contracting officers.
° Refer to the definitions to help clarify what type of information you have. Always refer to the
authoritative source as the definitions may change.
° Is it focused on contract specifications or contract performance?
° Is it government information that needs to be safeguarded?
° Is it technical in nature?
° Is it focused on weapon system performance or capabilities?
Figure 2-2: One of the first steps in protecting sensitive information is to determine what types
of sensitive information is involved.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 64 ---
52 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Federal Contract Information (FCI)
y FCI: Information, not intended for public release, that is provided by or generated for the
Government under a contract to develop or deliver a product or service to the Government, but
not including information provided by the Government to the public (such as on public websites)
or simple transactional information, such as necessary to process payments.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (48 CFR 52.204-21)
° FClis the broadest definition of government information requiring protection.
* Characteristics include:
° Private information.
° Contract related.
¢ Exemptions include:
¢ Provided by government on public websites.
° Transactional information.
* Defined in section 4.1901 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).
https://www.acquisition.gov/far/4.1901
Figure 2-3: FCI is the broadest definition of government intellectual property requiring protection
by an OSC.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 65 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 53
What Is FCI and What Is Not FCI
¢ What is FCI: CONTRACT
* A Defense Contractor has a contract that includes the schedule for delivery.
° The project schedule is not intended for public release.
¢ Itis only useful to the Defense Contractor and DoD.
¢ Therefore, it is FCI.
- What is not FCI: ° Within the same contract, the basic requirements for bidding on the project
are included.
° The information has been publicly released on the centralized government
website for all to see.
¢ Therefore, it is not FCI.
ea
PROJECT SCHEDULE _|
Figure 2-4: In addition to being able to identify what is FCI, you must be able to identify what is
not FCI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 66 ---
54 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
CUI: Information that requires safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent
with law, regulations, and government-wide policies, excluding information that is classified under
Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, December 29, 2009, or any
predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (E.0. 13556 (adapted))
° CUlis:
Always considered FCI (but not all FCI is necessarily CUI).
Not classified information
(as defined under E.O. 13526 or Atomic Energy Act of 1954).
Information that:
° The government creates or possesses.
° Anentity creates or possesses on behalf of the government.
* Requires safeguarding. FCI
Dissemination controlled by a law, regulation, or government policy.
Defined in Part 2002 of Title 32 CFR 2002.4(h).
Figure 2-5: The definition of Controlled Unclassified Information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 67 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 55
FCI vs. CUI
FCI
CUI
* Non-public contract information.
° CMMC Level 1.
° Defined by FAR Clause 52.204-21.
CONTRACT
Sensitive category of data that deals with
designs, performance, manufacturing or
other more technical details of covered
systems.
° CMMC Levels 2 and 3.
° Defined by Executive Order 13556,
32 CFR Part 2002, and DoD Instruction
5200.48.
PROJECT PLAN
Examples:
° Delivery dates.
¢ Schedules.
|
Examples:
* Blueprints / schematics. by Bey it
° Water assessments.
* Health information.
° Personnel records.
° Base civil engineering maps.
Figure 2-6: While comparing examples of FCI and CUI, it is also important to remember that all
CUI is FCI, but not all FCI is CUI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 68 ---
56 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Two Types of CUI
CUI Basic CUI Specified
* Most broad sense of CUI in the CUI Registry. * Controls don't have specific handling instructions. * CUI Basic is any CUI that is not CUI Specified. ° Contains specific handling controls defined in the
contract with the underlying authority.
* Not more important than CUI Basic.
* Requires enhanced controls for handling, storing,
processing, and transmitting.
Figure 2-7: Comparing the attributes of CUI Basic and CUI Specified.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 69 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 57
The CUI Registries
The CUI Registry provides the official list of CUI types and categories.
Established by 32 CFR.
¢ National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).
° CUI Executive Agent for the CUI Registry.
¢ https://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/category -marking-list
e Among the many resources, the CUI Registry contains information about:
° Categories.
¢ CUI Markings.
° Dissemination Controls.
° Registry Change Log.
¢ Policy and Guidance.
¢ The DoD CUI Registry:
e Mirrors NARA CUI Registry.
° Also applies NARA's CUI definitions in the context of the work performed by DoD.
° https://www.dodcui.mil/Home/DoD-CUI-Registry/
Figure 2-8: An official list of CUI types and categories is provided at the NARA and CUI Registries.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 70 ---
58 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CUI Registry Organizational Index Groupings
Provisional Statistical
Tax Transportation
Patent Privacy
Procurement and Proprietary Business
Acquisition Information
Natural and Cultural
Legal Resources
NATO Nuclear
Immigration Intelligence
.
LESS 1 Law Enforcement
Agreements
Critical Infrastructure Defense
Export Control Financial
Controlled Technical Information (CTI)
DoD Critical Infrastructure Security Information (DCRIT)
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI)
Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information-Defense (DCNI)
¢ Export Controlled (EXPT)
¢ Export Controlled Research (EXPTR)
Figure 2-9: The NARA CUI Registry has 20 different organizational index groupings of CUI, each
of which includes several CUI categories. This topic focuses on the Defense and Export Control
organizational index groupings and some of their categories that defense contractors will
primarily deal with.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 71 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 59
Controlled Technical Information (CTI)
Y CTI: Technical information with military or space application that is subject to controls on the
access, use, reproduction, modification, performance, display, release, disclosure, or
dissemination. Source: DFARS Clause 252.204-7012
° CTlis a specified category of CUI.
° CTlis a type of CUI that includes technical information.
e Especially likely to occur in contracts with military or space applications .
¢ Technical information is technical data or computer software, as defined in DFARS Clause 252.227-7013.
¢ Marked or otherwise identified in the contract, task order, or delivery order and provided to
contractor by or on behalf of, DoD in support of the performance of a contract; or
° Collected, developed, received, transmitted, used, or stored by, or on behalf of the government in
support of the performance of a contract.
Figure 2-10: CTI is part of the Defense category of CUI, and its attributes are shown here.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 72 ---
60 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Examples of CTI
Research and engineering data Engineering drawings and associated lists
Specifications
e Standards
Process sheets
e¢ Manuals
Technical reports
Technical orders
° Catalog-item identifications
¢ Data sets
e Studies and analyses and related information
° Computer software executable code
and source code SS —__—_—_———
Schematics
___ Tolerances
Blueprints ; ' ;
- Specifications
Figure 2-11: CTl refers to a wide range of regulated information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 73 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 61
Guidelines for Identifying CTI
* Specifically identified within the contract between the U.S. government and defense contractor.
¢ Primes need to clearly define and call out CTI in communications when providing it to subcontractors.
* Ask the government contracting officer if they believe that there is CTI within the scope of work.
* Any exchange of technical specifications should be viewed through the lens of the definition of CTI.
Figure 2-12: CTI should be identified in the contract between the defense contractor and the U.S.
government.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 74 ---
62 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Export-Controlled Information (ECl)
ECI: Any information or material that cannot be released to foreign nationals or representatives of
a foreign entity, without first obtaining approval or license from the Dept. of State for items
controlled by ITAR or the Dept. of Commerce for items controlled by the Export Administration
Regulations (EAR).
° EClis a specified category of CUI.
¢ ECl includes:
¢ Physical assets and encryption technologies.
¢ Assets falling within the scope of ITAR/EAR.
° International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) states that the
U.S. government has the authority to ban the sale of weapons
and related technologies to foreign companies.
° Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
e Administered by the Department of Commerce.
° Includes technologies not on the ITAR list, which focuses mostly
on defense technologies.
¢ ECl is subject to additional requirements above and beyond CUI handling.
¢ EClI can't be released to anyone that is not a U.S. citizen.
° CCPs might see ECI dissemination markings on CUI materials where export is controlled.
Figure 2-13: ECI has additional handling requirements above and beyond those mandated by
NARA as a CUI category.
Notes
NARA guidance for CUI marking for Export-Controlled CUI:
https://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/category-detail/export-control.html
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 75 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 63
Guidelines for Protecting FCI and CUI
Information Security Requirements FCI CUI
= Follow CMMC Level 1 Follow CMMC Level 2/NIST SP 800-171
Marking NARA Guidance DoD Specific Guidance Other Federal Agency Guidance No formal marking ° National Archives CUI Markings
guidance https://www..archives.gov/cui/registry/category-marking-list
None None None e NARA CUI Marking Handbook
Marking Controlled Unclassified Information
NARA Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) CUI Notices
° DOD Instruction 5200.48, Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
* DoD CUI Program
https://www.dodcui.mil/
* DoD Mandatory Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Training
https://securityawareness.usalearning.gov/cui/index.html
* DoD CUI Marking Aid
Controlled Unclassified Information Markings
State Department for ITAR-related Information
° NARA has regulatory priority.
e Other agencies can supplement NARA guidance but can't contradict it.
e Can make guidance more specific.
¢ Can make guidance more restrictive.
Figure 2-14: Protect FCI in accordance with the FAR 52 Clause, which maps to CMMC Level 1
requirements. Protect CUI in accordance with CMMC Level 2/NIST SP 800-171 requirements.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 76 ---
64 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Covered Defense Information (CDI)
CDI: Terms used to identify information that requires protection under DFARS Clause
252.204-7012. Unclassified CTI or other information, as described in the CUI Registry, that requires
safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with the law, regulations, and
government-wide policies.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (DFARS Clause 252.204-7012)
* General term in the Defense community for CUI under the authority of the DoD.
° Not limited to technical information.
* Can be any regulated information (e.g., privacy data) or research data
(e.g., biological, chemical, or genetic data).
° Exists only in the context of the DFARS Clause 252.204-7012.
Federal Contract Information
ctl ECI Sune | uy aeete
Categories
Figure 2-15: Covered Defense Information is the general term in the Defense community for CUI
under the authority of the Department of Defense.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 77 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 65
ACTIVITY 2-1
Identifying What Is and What Is Not Sensitive
Information
Scenario
The definitions for FCI and CUI are pretty broad. In this activity, to help you clarify the distinctions
between what is sensitive information and what is not sensitive information, you'll consider some
examples and determine whether they qualify as FCI, CUI, CTI, or ECI.
1. Example: A Request for Proposal (RFP)
Is a RFP sensitive information?
2. Example: Teaming agreement.
When an RFP is released, in many cases a Prime contractor will be able to
perform most of the requirements themselves. However, they frequently need
assistance from one or more subcontractors to meet the RFP's requirements.
So, the Prime contractor and subcontractor(s) enter into teaming agreements
that describe their respective roles and responsibilities should they win a
contract. Is a teaming agreement sensitive information?
3. Example: A contract with the government.
Are government contracts sensitive information?
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 78 ---
66 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
4. Example: Manual written for a product created under a defense contract.
When a company creates product documentation when under contract with
the DoD, are those materials sensitive information?
5. Example: A product specification for a defense contractor's commercial
product.
Are commercial product specification sheets produced by a defense
contractor sensitive information?
6. Example: A design specification created by a defense contractor.
A contractor documents design specifications and submits them to the
government. Are design specifications created under contract sensitive
information?
7. Example: Draft marketing materials that a defense contractor is creating for
the government.
Under contract with the DoD, a contractor creates various drafts of marketing
materials. Are drafts of marketing materials sensitive information?
8. Example: Email communications from the government.
The defense contractor receives emails from the government communicating
information about the contract. Are emails communicating contract
information sensitive information?
9. Example: Encryption technology created by a defense contractor.
The defense contractor creates encryption technologies as part of a drone
operating system. Are the software and encryption source code sensitive
information?
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 79 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 67
10.Example: Military base road map.
Is a road map for a military base sensitive information?
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic A
--- PAGE 80 ---
68 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC B
Manage the Sensitive Information
In this topic, you will learn about the management and governance of Federal Contract Information
(FCI) and Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI). This includes the tasks that an Organization
Seeking Certification (OSC) is required to perform based on the regulations to properly protect
sensitive information. As a CCP, you might be providing consultative services or working as an
Assessment Team Member to validate an OSC's compliance to the regulations.
Critical Points for Managing Sensitive Information
Identification ° CMMC Assessments verify whether an organization is
following the pertinent regulations to ensure that sensitive
information (FCI and CUI) is properly managed at these
Sharing points.
Marking
Safeguarding
° For more training on CUI:
¢ DoD Mandatory Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Training
https://securityawareness.usalearning.gov/cui/index.html
° NARA CUI Training link
https://www.archives.gov/cui/training.html
Storage
Records Management
Dissemination
Destruction
Figure 2-16: Verify that the OSC is properly managing sensitive information at the critical points
shown here.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 81 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 69
DoD Instruction 5200.48
¢ DoD Instruction 5200.48 “Controlled Unclassified Information”:
° Establishes policy.
° Assigns responsibilities.
° Prescribes procedures for the identification, handling, and storage of CUI throughout the DoD.
e Establishes the official DoD CUI Registry.
e Requires companies interacting with CUI for a lawful government purpose in support of a DoD
program to follow:
° DoDI 5200.48.
° DFARS Section 252.204-7008.
° DFARS Section 252.204-7012.
DOD INSTRUCTION 5200.48
CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI)
Originating Component: Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security
Effective: March 6, 2020
Releasability: Cleared for public release. Available on the Directives Division Website
at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/.
Figure 2-17: DoDI 5200.48 establishes the CUI program for the DoD and its contractors.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 82 ---
70 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
How CUI Is Determined
¢ DoD Instruction 5200.48 specifies that CUI is determined by the authorized holder.
° The determination is made at the time of creation.
¢ The authorized holder is responsible for determining whether the information falls into a CUI category.
¢ The authorized holder is then responsible for applying CUI markings and dissemination instructions
accordingly.
¢ Per DoD Instruction 5200.48, DoD’s CUI responsibility includes:
¢ Identifying whether any of the information being shared to their contractors is CUI via the contracting
vehicle.
¢ Appropriately marking documents, material, or other media accordingly.
° The Prime monitors and determines additional classification and/or handling requirements for:
° Aggregated and/or consolidated information.
° Data and/or other media.
¢ All DoD personnel, contractors, and subcontractors will submit unclassified
data for review in accordance with DoDI 5230.09.
Figure 2-18: DoD Instruction 5200.48 specifies that CUI is determined by the authorized holder
at the time of creation.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 83 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 71
CUI Determination Flowchart
Publicly
available?
Created/Possessed
on behalf of the
government?
Fall within a law,
regulation, or
government-wide
policy?
Use the DoD CUI Registry to
identify the category(ies) it falls
within
Mark as CUI
Figure 2-19: The process of determining whether you have CUI is a critical one for OSCs and
CCPs acting as consultants.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 84 ---
72 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Legal Rationale for Sharing and/or Transmitting CUI
Y Lawful government purpose: Any activity, mission, function, operation, or endeavor that the U.S.
Government authorizes or recognizes as within the scope of its legal authorities or the legal
authorities of non-executive branch entities (such as state and local law enforcement).
Source: 32 CFR 2002.4
¢ Lawful government purpose is a dynamic standard.
* Use risk-based decision making when deciding if a person is authorized to receive the CUI.
¢ DoDI 5200.48 states:
* No individual may have access to CUI information unless it is determined he or she has an authorized, lawful
government purpose.
* The person with authorized possession, knowledge, or control of CUI will determine whether an individual
has an authorized, lawful government purpose to access designated CUI.
Figure 2-20: Only people with a lawful government purpose should have access to CUI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 85 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 73
Sharing and/or Transmitting CUI
Sharing CUI
Transmitting CUI
Share CUI when access promotes operation and furthers a lawful government purpose. acommon project or — Transmit CU! electronically (e.g., website or email) via:
* Approved secure communications systems.
* Between agencies. * Under a contract or agreement with the designating agency. Do NOT share CU! if access harms or inhibits a
° Systems utilizing other protective measures, such as:
* Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) or
° Transport Layer Security
¢ CUI must be stored or handled in controlled
common project or operation.
environments that prevent unauthorized access.
° Between agencies. + Senda
° Under a contract or agreement with the
: ; ° Recipient.
designating agency.
¢ NARA permits access and dissemination if it:
° Is not prohibited by law, federal regulation, or government-wide policy.
¢ Furthers a lawful government purpose.
° Is not subject to limited dissemination controls.
° CUI should only be distributed when there is a reasonable expectation that all intended recipients are:
° Authorized to receive the CUI.
¢ Trained how to properly handle CUI.
Figure 2-21: There is a difference between sharing and transmitting CUI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 86 ---
74 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Sharing Sensitive Data
u Data Integrity: Property that data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-33)
Confidentiality: Preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including
means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (44 U.S. Code Sec 3542)
Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an
individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or
linkable to a specific individual.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-33)
° Sharing sensitive data between external networks and the OSC’s network requires:
° Protection of data integrity and confidentiality by implementing methods, such as:
¢ Encryption of emails, folders, and network segments.
° Security settings to protect data transmitted during teleconference sessions.
* Correct handling of data that contains CUI Markings.
* Compliance with U.S. Privacy Laws to protect PIl.
° U.S. Privacy Act (44 U.S. Code Sec 3542).
° Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
* Compliance with internal organizational policies and applicable federal agency policies that specify approved
methods of safe data transmission.
Figure 2-22: As sensitive data is shared from external sources into and then out of the OSC's
network, it must be protected and secured.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 87 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 75
DoD Marking Requirements
Must Do
¢ Ata minimum, CUI markings for unclassified documents will include:
e The acronym “CUI” at the top and bottom of each page.
e The CUI designation indicator.
° For all documents containing CUI, add CUI designations on the first page and/or the cover page.
Do Not
° Do not add “UNCLASSIFIED” before ”CUI.”
* Do not add the CUI category to the top and bottom of the page.
° Category is listed in the CUI designation indicator.
Optional
¢ For unclassified documents, portion markings are optional.
° If annotated, markings must be applied to all portions to include subjects, titles, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, bullet points, figures, charts, tables, etc.
° Do not apply portion markings to the CUI designation indicator.
Source: https://www.dodcui.mil/Portals/109/Documents/Desktop%20Aid%20Docs/20-S-2093%20cleared%20training%20guide-13_oct-20.pdf
Figure 2-23: To be compliant with DoD marking requirements, all documents containing CUI
must be marked accordingly.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 88 ---
76 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
NARA CUI Basic and CUI Specified Marking Requirements
¢ CUI Category or Subcategory markings are separated by a double forward slash (//).
° All CUI Specified Category markings must be included in the CUI Banner Marking.
° Each federal agency can modify these markings based on their needs.
* Documents must indicate the designator’s agency and a branch or division with contact information.
e Letterhead.
¢ Signature block with agency.
e Use of a “Controlled by” line.
CUI Basic Category Marking
(if authorized in agency policy)
CUI Specified Category Marking
CONTROLLED//SP-SPECIFIED
CUI//BASIC
TO: See Distribution
FROM: USD(I&S)
SUBJECT: XYZ Project Specifications
TO: See Distribution
FROM: USD(I&S)
SUBJECT: XYZ Project Specifications
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida lectus commodo
tincidunt. Morbi a magna vestibulum, interdum nibh
eu, varius felis. In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
Maecenas mattis, risus commodo blandit aliquam,
purus tellus sagittis erat, a vulputate lacus diam et
libero. In tempus at ante nec aliquam. Nam sed tortor at
nisl dignissim porta eget sit amet sapien. Phasellus
iaculis eros in tempus rhoncus. In aliquam vel dui quis
gravida. Duis sit amet gravida nisl. Sed nibh elit,
laoreet sit amet suscipit eu, facilisis vel metus. Duis
consectetur sapien sit amet tortor accumsan, non
dignissim sapien tincidunt. Sed quis malesuada est.
Suspendisse nulla mauris, tincidunt vel erat sit amet,
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida lectus commodo
tincidunt. Morbi a magna vestibulum, interdum nibh
eu, varius felis. In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
Maecenas mattis, risus commodo blandit aliquam,
purus tellus sagittis erat, a vulputate lacus diam et
libero. In tempus at ante nec aliquam. Nam sed tortor at
nisl dignissim porta eget sit amet sapien. Phasellus
iaculis eros in tempus rhoncus. In aliquam vel dui quis
gravida. Duis sit amet gravida nisl. Sed nibh elit,
laoreet sit amet suscipit eu, facilisis vel metus. Duis
consectetur sapien sit amet tortor accumsan, non
dignissim sapien tincidunt. Sed quis malesuada est.
Suspendisse nulla mauris, tincidunt vel erat sit amet,
Source: https://www.archives.gov/files/cui/20161206-cui-marking-handbook-v1-1.pdf
Figure 2-24: According to NARA guidelines, there are different marking requirements for CUI
Basic and CUI Specified.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 89 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 77
Marking CUI on Legacy Material
* Legacy material does not need to be redacted or remarked.
* When already stored in DoD access-controlled locations. * New documents derived from legacy materials must be marked as CUI if they: ° Contain CUI.
¢ Will be shared outside the DoD.
———
e |
LEGACY —
Figure 2-25: Guidelines for marking CUI on legacy material.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 90 ---
78 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
DoD Compliant Marking Samples in Printed Materials
Page Header Slide Headers
CUI
TO: See Distribution
FROM: USD(I&S)
SUBJECT: XYZ Project Specifications
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida lectus commodo tincidunt. CUI
Morbi a magna vestibulum, interdum nibh eu, varius felis. In : Seen : :
eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales. Maecenas mattis, risus C Y Designation
commodo blandit aliquam, purus tellus sagittis erat, a are : 5 °
vulputate lacus diam et libero. In tempus at ante nec aliquam. Indicator
Nam sed tortor at nisl dignissim porta eget sit amet sapien.
Phasellus iaculis eros in tempus rhoncus. In aliquam vel dui
quis gravida. Duis sit amet gravida nisl. Sed nibh elit, laoreet
sit amet suscipit eu, facilisis vel metus. Duis consectetur
sapien sit amet tortor accumsan, non dignissim sapien
tincidunt. Sed quis malesuada est. Suspendisse nulla mauris,
tincidunt vel erat sit amet, tempus cursus dui. Suspendisse vel
scelerisque felis. Duis iaculis arcu erat, nec ultrices velit
* Phasellus ulla lit gravida lec! des tii LS
CUI Controlled by: OUSD(I&S) + Morbi a magna eb tei LN cl sb BA
Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC * In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
Designation CUI Category(ies): EXPT SEs een
° Limited Dissemination Control: FEDCON /
Indicator POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212
CUI
Page Footer
Slide Footers
Figure 2-26: Examples of CUI markings in printed letters and slide presentations.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 91 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 79
Portion Marking
¢ Not required.
e Used when there is a mix of CUI and
unclassified/uncontrolled information.
° If used, must be throughout entire document.
¢ Portions include:
Subjects
Titles
Headings
Paragraphs and sub-paragraphs
Bullet points and sub-bullet points
Pictures
Graphs
Charts
Maps
Reference list
Etc.
Page Header
CUI
(U) How to Mark CUI
Portion
M arkings * (U) Lorem ipsum
* (CUI) Consectetur adipiscing elit.
* (U) Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida tincidunt.
(U) Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida lectus commodo tincidunt.
Morbi a magna vestibulum, interdum nibh eu, varius felis.
(CUD) In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales. Maecenas
mattis, risus commodo blandit aliquam, purus tellus sagittis erat,
a vulputate lacus diam et libero. In tempus at ante nec aliquam.
Controlled by: OUSDU&S)
CUI
, : Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC
Designation CUI Category(ies): PRVCY
Indicator Limited Dissemination Control: FEDCON
POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212
CUI
Page Footer
Figure 2-27: Examples of CUI markings for a portion of a document.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 92 ---
80 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
DoD Compliant Marking Samples in Email
Example Email with CUI Markings - Message (HTML)
File Message Insert Options Format Text Review Help Q Tell me what you want to do
fly S| Calibriody » 11 » B I U2»~ Av os Z U-~ m@- Fe
> From v
To
Send
Cc
Subject Example Email with CUI Markings
Banner
> CUI
Unclassified email that contains CUI must include a banner above the email body containing the CUI designation indicator.
Portion markings are optional.
CUI r Controlled by: OUSD(I&S)
: : Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC
Designation CUI Category(ies): PRVCY
° Limited Dissemination Control: FEDCON
Indicator | POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212
> CUl
Figure 2-28: Example of CUI markings in an email message.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 93 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 81
CUI Coversheet Example
e Use coversheets when materials are:
e CUI that isn't labeled. ° Physical media that can’t be labeled. G U |
ATTENTION
Customer:
Project name / ID:
Part Number:
Date:
CUUSsP-
If found, contact:
Notes:
ATTENTION
Figure 2-29: An example of using a CUI coversheet to mark materials that are not labeled.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 94 ---
82 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Marking Samples for Physical Systems and Equipment
° SF 902 Label
e Use the SF 902 on computers, servers, mobile devices, file
cabinets, external hard drives, et al.
° SF 903 Label
e Use on small electronic media, such as USB devices. Ties mecturn bss
5
U.S. Government Property >
e Rooms AUTHORIZED
e Placards can be used as needed. PERSONNEL ONLY
THIS ROOM CONTAINS
CONTROLLED
UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION
Figure 2-30: Examples of CUI markings on physical systems and equipment.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 95 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 83
Marking Samples for Visual Media
Photographs/Blueprints/Schematics/etc.
° Electronic:
° Mark visual media that contains CUI using a watermark.
° If embedded within a document, you only have to mark as CUI if:
° They can be physically removed from the document, or
° They are placed in part of document not marked as CUI.
¢ Where possible, add CUI marking labels in the metadata.
<r * Physical:
CU | e Mark as CUI on the visual media's back.
* Conceal the visual media within a similarly marked envelope or folder.
° If circumstances prevent marking on item’s back (e.g., it is evidence):
—_—o ° Use tape, frames, or envelopes to provide the marking.
For more information:
https://www.archives.gov/files/cui/documents/2017-Audio-Photo-Video-bifold-v1.pdf
Figure 2-31: Examples of CUI markings on electronic and physical visual media.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 96 ---
84 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Marking Samples for Video and Audio
This Video Contains
Controlled Unclassified
Information.
Video Audio
* Identify that it contains CUI in opening section of the * \dentify that it contains CUI in opening section of the
video. - \f CUI Specified is included, include the appropriate recording. ° State “This recording contains controlled
marker.
* Only use this method if permitted by law or unclassified information.”
government policy.
° State the appropriate names of all CUI Specified
° Physicall
y mark the storage medium (such as USB categories.
° Physically mark the storage medium (such as USB
drive), if used.
drive), if used.
e Where possible, add CUI marking labels in the
» Where possible, add CUI marking labels in the
metadata.
metadata.
For more information: htt s://www.archives. ov/files/cui/documents
/ 2017-Audio-Photo
-Video-bifold-v1. df
Figure 2-32: Examples of CUI markings on video and audio information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 97 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 85
Requirements for Mailing CUI] Documents
¢ Adocument containing CUI may be transmitted via:
° First Class, Express, Certified, or Registered mail, as well as by any commercial carrier;
¢ A person authorized access to the CUI so long as the person can control access to the document being
transported; or
° Mail services internal to the facility.
° To transmit CUI in a document, it must be packaged in a sealed, opaque envelope:
¢ For external transmissions, the document must have the recipient’s address, a return address,
and the words “TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY” on the front.
¢ For internal transmissions, the document must have the words “TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE
ONLY” on the front, but only the recipient’s address is required.
Figure 2-33: When mailing documents containing CUI, you must adhere to the following
requirements.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 98 ---
86 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Fax and Package Marking Considerations
° Faxes:
° Use a transmittal coversheet (e.g., SF 901) with the CUI documents.
° Annotate with:
° “When enclosure is removed, this document is Uncontrolled Unclassified Information” or
° “When enclosure is removed, this document is (CUI Category); upon removal, this document does not
contain CUI.”
e Make sure authorized person is present to receive the fax.
¢ DONOT send to an unattended fax machine.
° Packages:
* CUl can be mailed or shipped. Inner container
. marked as CUI
° Package in a non-transparent envelope or box.
° Include authorized person in the address block.
° Pay to have the carrier track the package.
° Do not mark the outside envelope or box with CUI marking.
Outer shipping
container has no
CUI marking
Figure 2-34: Examples of CUI markings on faxes and packages.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 99 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 87
C Responsibilities Related to CUI Marking
“
° AsaCCP, you need to know that CUI should be, and how it is to be, marked.
° On the consulting side, you might be:
° Educating your client on how to mark CUI.
° Assisting your client, implementing templates to ensure processes are supported.
° Labeling storage media, systems, rooms, etc. —_—=—
° During assessments, you will be:
° Evaluating OSC training of their staff on CUI marking.
° Assessing if they are marking all forms of CUI.
° Evaluating CUl-related protections.
* CMMC Model is only concerned with whether CUI is marked and handled correctly.
* CCAs will not evaluate the specific details of the marking (e.g., is it really CUI//SP-CTI).
Figure 2-35: As a CCP, you are not directly responsible for marking, but you need to know about
CUI marking to perform your job tasks.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 100 ---
88 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Safeguard Data Using Access Controls
° To safeguard sensitive data, apply the proper access controls.
¢ Physical and Logical access controls work collaboratively to ensure only those authorized are
granted access.
° To be effective, organizations must use a combination of both.
Restrict Physical Access to: Restrict Logical Access to:
° Facilities ° Data
e Rooms e Digital resources BS
e Devices E e Networks nn
e Media Nye &
pe Other assets
Figure 2-36: Applying the proper physical and logical access controls protects data from
unauthorized individuals.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 101 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 89
Authentication and Authorization
Authentication
¢ The process by which a system verifies the identity of a user who wants access to the system.
° Example: Passwords, tokens, thumbprints
Authorization
* Determines what an identity can access within a system once it's been authenticated to it.
e Example: OAuth
Access Control Mechanisms
¢ Determine which operations a user may or may not engage with through comparing the user
identity to the access credentials (e.g., file, program, or data access).
° Example: Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
Encryption
° Provides additional protections in cases where a user or system may be sharing sensitive
protected information (e.g., design documents, financial statements, test results).
° Example: Secure Shell (SSH) and Socket Layer Protocols (SSL)
Figure 2-37: Authentication, authorization, and access control mechanisms are applied to
safeguard sensitive information from unauthorized individuals.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 102 ---
90 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
Multifactor Authentication (MFA): A mechanism that provides for added protection
of data through electronic methods.
e Users are required to present at least two of the following:
° Something you know: Response to Challenge Question
° Something you have: Token (physical or electronic) or third-party authentication app
° Something you are: Fingerprint or Retina scan
e May be accomplished through:
° Two Factor Authentication (2FA)
e Adaptive Multifactor Authentication (AMFA)
e Encryption Key Management
Figure 2-38: MFA offers stronger protection of an organization's sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 103 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 91
Company Policies and Processes for Safeguarding Standards
¢ Policies should clearly articulate data handling expectations and objectives to establish
governance for the organization.
* Processes should articulate how the policy objectives will be met.
° Collectively, organizational policies and processes should serve to complement existing DoD policy
and instruction, including:
e CUILRP Drivers
¢ Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information
e 32 CFR Part 2002, Controlled Unclassified Information
* DoD Instructions (DoDI)
* DoDI 5200.48, Controlled Unclassified Information
* DoDI 5200.01, DoD INFOSEC Program and Protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
¢ DoD Manual 5200.01
¢ Volume 1, DoD INFOSEC Program: Overview, Classification, and Declassification
* Volume 2, DoD INFOSEC Program: Marking of Information
° Volume 3, DoD INFOSEC Program: Protection of Classified Information
Figure 2-39: An organization's policies and processes should complement existing DoD policy
instructions to ensure optimal safeguarding standards.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 104 ---
92 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Cybersecurity Awareness Training
Ml Awareness: A learning process that sets the stage for training by changing individual and
organizational attitudes to realize the importance of security and the adverse consequences of its
failure. Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-16)
Awareness and Training Program: Explains proper rules of behavior for the use of agency information
systems and information. The program communicates information technology (IT) security policies
and procedures that need to be followed. (i.e., NSTISSD 501, NIST SP 800-50).
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (CNSSI 4009)
Identifies common risks and cybersecurity threats.
Reduces human error.
Provides best practices for cyber hygiene.
¢ Helps employees understand the security risks of their actions.
e Mitigates security risks to sensitive information.
e Recognizes and responds to internal and external threats.
e Enhances organizational resilience against cybersecurity
threats.
¢ Embeds a culture of security compliance.
Figure 2-40: Cybersecurity awareness training provides multiple benefits for organizations.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 105 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 93
CUI Storage in Controlled Environments
¢ Backup systems. ° Classification of emails and its source. ° Network diagrams segmentation and ACL. * Data classifications. ° Hard storage devices positioned in lock and
safe locations (rooms/cabinets).
0 Authorized workstations or mobile devices
to store data.
° Storage room designed for data security.
Policies and Procedures
° OSCs must have policies and procedures for conducting/managing files.
° Policies and procedures provide specifics to prevent exposure of CUI to unauthorized people in
any unprotected/public location (during travel, at a hotel, etc.).
° Policies and procedures include:
° Adefined structure to the policies with supporting procedures.
° Periodic reviews and updates.
° Distribution throughout the organization to provide awareness and knowledge of policies.
e Management according to a defined process.
Figure 2-41: Best practices for storing CUI can be divided into logical and physical approaches,
and everyone in the OSC must have knowledge of the policies and procedures.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 106 ---
94 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Configuration Management
Y Configuration Management: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the
integrity of information technology products and systems, through control of processes for
initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems
throughout the system development life cycle. Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 5
Helps organizations establish, maintain, and control the organization’s systems, devices, and data.
These controls collectively help to reinforce our cyber resiliency while reducing potential threat.
Establishes and maintains baseline configurations and inventories of the organizational system
throughout the respective system development life cycles.
e Includes hardware, software, firmware, and documentation.
Enforces the principle of least functionality by:
° Configuring organizational systems to provide only essential processes.
Establishes and enforces security configuration settings.
Tracks, reviews, approves, and logs changes to systems analyzing the security impact of changes.
Defines, documents, approves, and enforces both physical and logical access restrictions
associated with changes to organizational systems.
Restricts, disables, or prevents the use of nonessential:
e Programs, functions, ports, protocols, and services.
Figure 2-42: Configuration Management is an essential component of a cybersecurity program.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 107 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 95
Physical Storage
° Store CUI in controlled physical environments that prevent unauthorized access.
e Atleast one physical barrier must be employed to limit access to authorized people.
° Employ keyed/cipher locks, security check points, and/or automated access control systems.
° Printing of CUl documents and data should be minimized.
° Proper safeguarding of printed CUI needs to be applied where hard copies are unavoidable.
* Reasonable steps should be taken to mitigate risk of inadvertent disclosure/unauthorized access:
¢ During working hours, have a visitor escort policy.
e Monitor your surroundings when unauthorized personnel are present in the office or during travel.
¢ Do not view CUI in a public place to prevent observation.
* Do not leave CUI unattended to prevent accidental exposure.
° Do not discuss CUI to prevent overhearing.
° After working hours or during travel, store CUI documents and authorized hard storage devices in:
° Locked desks or file cabinets.
° Locked rooms.
° Locked data centers.
° Storage room designed for data security.
° Locked communication areas.
Figure 2-43: Compliance with the requirements for proper storage protects CUI from being
accessed by unauthorized individuals.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 108 ---
96 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Electronic Storage
° Store CUI in controlled electronic environments that prevent unauthorized access.
° Employ encryption for data maintained on storage media.
° Full disk, volume/virtual, and file/folder encryption, where indicated.
° Use only authorized workstations or mobile devices.
° Don’t store CUI on personally owned systems or devices.
° The OSC should utilize an agency sponsored/authorized virtual environment, where available.
° Minimum security controls must be applied on systems and devices.
e At least one electronic barrier must be employed to limit access.
° For example, dedicated network drives, SharePoint sites, intranet sites.
° Asplash screen warning and notice of consent must alert users of CUI within the system.
Figure 2-44: Compliance with the requirements for proper storage of electronic media protects
CUI from unauthorized access.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 109 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 97
Backup Systems
* Data backups provide a secure archive of the organization’s most valuable information and data.
° Allows organizations to quickly and seamlessly restore data.
¢ Allows for continuity of operations.
* Solutions may be tailored and scaled to support the organization’s business needs.
¢ Backups must ensure the same standard of care as the original CUI source.
e Encrypt backup files.
° Manage access to the data backup (physical, technical, and administrative controls).
e Physically secure the storage devices, location, and media that contain CUI.
° Backup systems might include:
* Removable media.
° External hard drives.
° Cloud storage solutions.
¢ Third-party backup services.
° Consider a 3-2-1 approach.
Copies of data [ Storage solutions [ Copy stored remotely
Figure 2-45: Backup systems ensure that frequent and consistent backups occur and are
managed at the same standard as the original CUI data.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 110 ---
98 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Required Encryption
Y Encryption: The process of changing plaintext into cipher text.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NISTIR 7621 Rev 1, CNSSI 4009)
¢ When authorized employees interact with CUI, the files must be protected by encryption.
¢ Encryption is required for CUI both:
° At rest/in storage.
¢ Onall mobile devices and portable media.
° Onsystem media when outside a CUI-controlled environment/enclave.
° In transit/during transmission.
° Current commercial email and storage solutions are insufficient to comply with DoD requirements
for contractors with CUI.
e Ata minimum, organizations should employ FIPS-validated cryptography to protect the
confidentiality of CUI.
° Cryptographic modules must be tested & validated to meet Federal Information Processing Standard
requirements, FIPS 140-1 or 140-2.
° In essence, if cryptography is required, then it must be validated.
e Should the cryptographic module be revoked, use of that module is no longer permitted.
Figure 2-46: Encryption protects files containing CUI at rest and in transit.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 111 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 99
Network Segmentation
Network segmentation: The use of physical devices such as firewalls or logical separation such as
subnetting to create distinct segments in your internal network.
° Benefits:
° Monitor traffic more effectively.
° Reduce lateral movement.
° Create segment(s) based on data classification.
° Establish controlled environments and restrict access through your role - or rule-based access control procedures.
¢ Examples of network segments:
° Separating public facing from internal systems (in which the public -facing side is referred to as a DMZ).
° Keeping financial or management data separate from general company data.
° Creating segments to isolate the storage and processing of data classified as FCI or CUI from the general network
¢ Document segments with a network diagram.
Vv
Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): A small section of a private network that is located between two
firewalls and made available for public access.
° DMZ provides external, untrusted sources with restricted access to releasable information while
shielding the internal networks from outside attacks.
Figure 2-47: Network segmentation is a crucial tool to create a controlled environment for FCI
and CUI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 112 ---
100 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Role-Based and Rule-Based Access Control
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
° Manages access to different assets or segments of your network through roles that align with
responsibilities, departments, etc. inside your company.
° Each individual account can then be given roles based on responsibilities or required accesses.
° Less possibility of human error compared with providing privileges to every account individually.
° Allows you to give access to or remove access from a new segment or asset to an entire role group at once.
° Instead of having to modify dozens or even hundreds of accounts to make the change.
Rule-Based Access Control
* Can supplement a RBAC model by adding rules to only allow access to specified data classifications.
* Rules might be applied to specific user account(s), certain IP addresses (whitelisting/blacklisting), certain ports,
or during certain times of day.
° Provides a more granular level of control of who or what has access to CUI data.
* Can be controlled at a high level of system access all the way down to the level of individual files or folders.
° Allows for personnel who need access to FCI/CUI to be the only people allowed to view or modify the files.
Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE)
¢ Integrates traditional RBAC with cryptographic encryption methods.
e Used to supplement RBAC in cloud environments.
Figure 2-48: Role-based access control and rule-based access control are effective tools to limit
the access to FCI and CUI to only authorized individuals with a lawful government purpose.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 113 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 101
Common Separation Methods
[
Sales and Software
Operations Engineering Devel ent
evelopm
OQ = ID
oO ram]
Figure 2-49: Isolation and Controlled Access are common separation methods to protect
sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 114 ---
102 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Isolation
Assets that process, store, and transmit sensitive information must not interact with devices that are not intended
to handle sensitive information.
7 -Application | * Devices are separated via configuration that
6 -Presentation prohibits communications.
5 -Session ° E.g., Guest Wireless.
4 -Transport
3 -Network ° Devices are:
2 -Data Link
¢ Separated at Layer 1- Physical.
e Unable to communicate with one another either via
1 -Physical —
wired or wireless means.
e “Sneakernet” communications required.
Figure 2-50: Assets that process, store, and transmit sensitive information must be isolated from
devices that do not handle sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 115 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 103
Physical Isolation
° Physical barriers:
* Are commonly applied to limit where sensitive
information can be handled within a building.
* Can be placed at outside entries to the building. |
* Can also be placed in interior passageways to I NOTICE
establish boundaries around different segments RESTRICTED AREA
of the business. . AUTHO!
| PERSONNEL ONLY
* Controlled access: ——
* Require authorized users to have a key or badge to access.
* Require visitors to be escorted. |
Bj
Figure 2-51: Using physical isolation as a separation technique.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 116 ---
104 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Logical Isolation Example: Guest Wireless
Internet
See eee
Firewall
erm mmm nnn fern rrrrr
were eme ewe eee eee eene
° Logical Isolation.
* Commonly used.
° Networking Infrastructure and Next Generation Firewall used to:
° Logically separate guest network from internal network.
° Logically isolate the networks.
Figure 2-52: Guest wireless is a common example of both Isolation and Controlled Access.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 117 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 105
Logical Isolation Example: Access Control
¢ Segmentation provides for partitioning a network Develetech.com File Server
into smaller networks.
* Segregation introduces rulesets for controlling the communications between specific hosts and LJ auittin a Computers 1) Develetech
— Human Resources
services.
° Storage-based segmentation may be augmented by Ul users —_ Finance
disk and volume encryption. “Se creanizational Unit — Marketing
° Control Access at the Information Object Level. aa — a
Common with Active Directory.
e Separate AD Groups are used to control access to
specific folders. ¢ Strategy works with Office 365 Groups & Teams. & Project X FCI Users —_» i Project X - FCI Only
CUI - Project Y 8 Project ¥ Users a
_— Project Y - CUI
¢ Common pitfalls:
° Organizations normally place information into folders
based on org structure.
° Work on sensitive information is normally matrixed
across the org.
e What CMMC Level would file server have to be?
Figure 2-53: Logical isolation can be done via Active Directory when specific AD Organizational
Units and related groups are used to manage access to specific folders on a file share.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 118 ---
106 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Controlled Access
* Communications are restricted based on specified configuration or parameters.
* Encryption employed for secure communications (e.g., TrustID Secure Email Certificates, YubiKey for MFA).
° Most commonly done via:
° Internal Network Segmentation.
° Authorization & Access Control Systems.
° e.g., Active Directory. —
* Done with Physical controls also: a '
° Secured buildings & rooms where sensitive information is stored.
Figure 2-54: Controlled Access is more common than Isolation. Firewalls and other networking
infrastructure provide Controlled Access.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 119 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 107
External Untrusted User/System Access Control
2=2 internet»
= 2 om Certification Boundary a boii
a poeeee ene eee eee eee Jorn r rrr ann n nnn nnn nnn nn nnn n= .
t ‘
Non-compliant | VPN Firewall Bon ‘
company «.-- => up Microsoft 365
i] i]
- L ; Controlled '
qeoeoee => e—oeoe-==> ee t
Internet ! Access
] ]
] ]
Non- 4 Firewall ‘
compliant 1 RDP
— : cise
(external) | Only — = = — = \
computer 4 —_= —
'
VG ]
— G@=TM ActiveDirectory _‘ File Server |
4 Bastion Host Server ‘
\ ?
¢ Separation techniques can be used to “grant” access to a non-compliant company/user access to sensitive
information.
e “View In” only functionality - NO data can leave the certified enclave.
° Encrypt network traffic inside the system boundaries.
¢ Applies to both authorized external communications and network links between nodes in a multi-server system.
¢ Don't forget administrative/organizational controls must still be handled for external user.
Figure 2-55: Separation techniques can be used to control access of an external untrusted user
or system.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 120 ---
108 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Dissemination Controls
Dissemination control: Method of managing sensitive information distribution so that it doesn't
spread more widely than allowed by law, regulation, or government -wide policy.
¢ Regulations for properly disseminating CUI are noted in DoDI 5200.48.
° Organizations must comply with the CUI dissemination controls that protect both:
Physical environment (e.g., facilities, IT assets, work areas), and
Data (e.g., email, storage locations).
¢ Technical and non-technical mechanisms can be used to ensure that sensitive information is
protected during dissemination, such as:
Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) products designed to securely manage information workflows.
Encryption to safeguard email.
Usage policies and procedures to protect portable devices containing sensitive information.
Policies and procedures for employees and visitors when they access sensitive information on premises.
Access controls to ensure only authorized users and systems are accessing and disseminating sensitive
information.
¢ Protective measures and dissemination controls will be specified in the contract, grants, or other
formal agreements, as applicable.
Figure 2-56: DoDI 5200.48 specifies the dissemination requirements for DoD CUI.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 121 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 109
Dissemination Controls (NOFORN and REL TO)
° No coreg ‘anals (NOFORN or NF):
° For information yeting criteria of:
° Intelligence Comi@hity 710.
° Intelligence Community Policy Guidance 403.1.
e May only be applied to unclassified intelligence information and certain nuclear and national disclosure
documents.
¢ Information with this marking must not be provided to:
¢ Foreign governments (including coalition partners).
e International organizations.
¢ Foreign nationals.
° Non-U.S. citizens.
e Releasable To (REL TO):
¢ Only applied to CUI that:
e ls predetermined by the originator to be releasable through established channels. &+,
e Has an export control. ¢
° Has a licensing requirement with a foreign disclosure agreement in place.
For more information on general dissemination principles and all the limited dissemination controls:
https://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/limited -dissemination
Figure 2-57: Using limited distribution CUI markings of No Foreign Nationals and Releasable To.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 122 ---
110 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Examples of NOFORN and REL TO Markings
Mandatory Markings Only With Portion Markings Added
CUI//NOFOR! CUI//NOFORN
How to Mark CUI ¢ Lorem ipsum
* Consectetur adipiscing elit.
* Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida tincidunt.
* Sed malesuada
* In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
* In tempus at ante nec aliquam.
Controlled by: OUSD(I&S)
Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC CUI Category(ies): NNPI Limited Dissemination Control: NOFORN POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212 (U) How to Mark CUI
* (U) Lorem ipsum
* (CUI//NF) Consectetur adipiscing elit.
* (U) Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida tincidunt.
* (U) Sed malesuada
* (CUI) In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
* (CUI//NF) In tempus at ante nec aliquam.
Controlled by: OUSD(I&S)
Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC
CUI Category(ies): NNPI
Limited Dissemination Control: NOFORN
POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212
( CUI//NOFORN ) CUI//NOFORN
(cuvrREL TO USA, FVEY)
How to Mark CUI * Lorem ipsum * Consectetur adipiscing elit. * Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida tincidunt. * Sed malesuada * In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
* In tempus at ante nec aliquam. Controlled by: OUSD(I&S) Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC CUI Category(ies): NNPI Limited Dissemination Control: CUI/REL TO USA, FVEY POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212 (cuwreL TO USA, FVEY) CUI//REL TO USA, FVEY
(U) How to Mark CUI
* (U) Lorem ipsum
* (CUI//REL TO) Consectetur adipiscing elit.
* (U) Phasellus ullamcorper elit gravida tincidunt.
* (U) Sed malesuada
* (CUI) In eu augue id tortor aliquam sodales.
* (CUI//REL TO) In tempus at ante nec aliquam.
Controlled by: OUSD(I&S)
Controlled by: CL&S INFOSEC
CUI Category(ies): NNPI
Limited Dissemination Control: CUI//REL TO USA, FVEY
POC: Doug MacArthur, 202-555-1212
CUI//REL TO USA, FVEY
Figure 2-58: Examples of No Foreign Nationals and Releasable To markings.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 123 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 111
Decontrolling CUI
Decontrolling occurs when an authorized holder, consistent with CUI regulations and the CUI
Registry, removes safeguarding and dissemination controls from CUI that no longer requires such
— controls.
Sources: 32 CFR 2002.18 and NARA CUI Registry
* Decontrolling CUI relieves the authorized holder(s) from complying with CUI handling
requirements but is not equivalent to authorizing it for public release.
* All DoD CUI must be controlled until authorized for public release in accordance with:
* DoD Instructions (DoDIs) 5230.09, 5230.29, and 5400.04, or
* DoD Manual (DoDM) 5400.07.
* Official DoD information that is not classified or controlled as CUI will also be reviewed prior to
public release in accordance with DoDls 5230.09 or 5230.29.
Figure 2-59: When CUI no longer requires safeguarding and dissemination controls, it can be
decontrolled and released to the public.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 124 ---
112 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Records
Record: Agency records and Presidential papers or Presidential records (or Vice -Presidential), as
those terms are defined in 44 U.S.C. 3301 and 44 U.S.C. 2201 and 2207.
Records are also items created or maintained by a Government contractor, licensee, certificate
holder, or grantee that are subject to the sponsoring agency’s control under the terms of the
entity's agreement with the agency.
Source: NARA CUI Glossary
https://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/cui-glossary.html
° What qualifies as a record?
° Reports.
° Technical documentation.
° Historical records.
° What does not qualify as a record?
° Blank forms. £ FEASIBILITY Teg OUR PROJECT
-, <r TECHNICAL
¢ Templates. B DOCUMENTATION
° Materials available from public sources.
Figure 2-60: The definition of records can be found in the NARA CUI Glossary.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 125 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 113
Records Management Directives for Retention and Disposal
Retention
° 44 U.S. Code Chapter 33 provides guidance related to the creation, maintenance, and disposition
of Federal records.
° Government records may only be kept for authorized periods of time.
* No government records may be destroyed, mutilated, or removed from government custody without
authorization.
e Some records may be preserved permanently through NARA.
* Records that are not in active use but cannot be destroyed for some time including both physical
and digital records:
° Stored appropriately in agency-occupied/owned space.
° Transferred to Federal Records Center (FRC).
° Transferred to a NARA-approved commercial storage facility.
Disposal
* After the retention period has passed, follow the policies and procedures for CUI disposal:
* 44U.S.C. Chapter 33-Disposal of Records https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/44/chapter-33
* DoD Mandatory CUI Training https://securityawareness.usalearning.gov/cui/index.html
° DoD Records Management Program
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/501502p.pdf
Figure 2-61: 44 U.S.C. Chapter 33 provides guidance for the creation, maintenance, and
disposition of Federal records.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 126 ---
114 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Media Sanitization
Y Media sanitization: The actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both
ordinary and extraordinary means.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms, NIST SP 800-88 Rev 1
° Categories of sanitization include:
° Clear: applies logical techniques to sanitize data in all user -addressable storage locations for protection
against simple non-invasive data recovery techniques.
° Typically applied through standard Read and Write commands to the storage device:
° Rewriting with a new value.
e Using a menu option to reset the device to the factory state (where rewriting is not supported).
° Purge: applies physical or logical techniques that render target data recovery infeasible using state of the art
laboratory techniques.
° Destroy: renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques and results in
the subsequent inability to use the media for storage of data.
° Cryptographic Erase (CE) is a type of purging.
° Leverages the encryption of target data by enabling sanitization of the target data’s encryption key.
° Leaves only the ciphertext remaining on the media, effectively sanitizing the data by preventing read -access.
Figure 2-62: Sanitization methods can include clearing, purging, and destruction.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 127 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 115
Best Practices for CUI Destruction
When destroying CUI, including both hard copy and electronic form, agencies must:
° Dosoina manner that makes it unreadable, indecipherable, and unrecoverable.
e Use the specific method prescribed by any relevant law, regulation, or government -wide policy.
Follow the guidelines in 32 CFR 2002.14 and NIST SP 800-88, Revision 1.
Follow NARA CUI Notice 2019-03: Destroying Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) in paper form.
Paper-based or shreddable hard copy CUI:
e Use crosscut shredders which produce particles that are 1mm x 5 mm (0.04 in. x 0.2 in.) in size (or smaller).
° Pulverize/disintegrate paper using disintegrator devices equipped with a 3/32 in. (2.4 mm) security screen.
¢ Burn to white ash.
Electronic media:
¢ Clear, purge, or destroy following guidance from NIST SP 800-88, Revision 1.
Use NSA-evaluated products posted at Media Destruction Guidance site.
° https://www.nsa.gov/Resources/Media-Destruction-Guidance/
Best Approach:
¢ Securely store physical and electronic storage media until cleared for disposal.
¢ Contract with a third-party company to provide NSA/DoD/NIST-validated destruction services.
¢ Document the destruction (generally provided by the third -party company).
Figure 2-63: To properly dispose of or destroy CUI, follow the guidelines in 32 CFR 2002.14 and
NIST SP 800-88, Rev. 1.
Notes
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 128 ---
116 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 2-2
Managing Sensitive Information
Scenario
As a CCP, you have been hired to consult with a couple of OSCs and provide guidance on how they
are managing sensitive information properly.
1. You are providing consulting services for a small business that is planning to
obtain CMMC Certification. The OSC has previously only worked in the
private sector, but wants to start bidding on government contracts. How do
you even start to identify the sensitive information when they don't have any
yet?
2. While you are doing some consulting work for Consolidated Flange Company,
in the Engineering office, you notice that one of the packages awaiting pickup
by the U.S. Postal Service is marked with a CUI cover sheet. You inquire
about this and are told that the package contains some technical drawings
that are being sent to one of the company's subcontractors. Are there any
potential problems with this scenario?
3. When the OSC asks for guidance on proper management of FCI and CUI,
what are the key things you would advise them to do?
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information | Topic B
--- PAGE 129 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 117
Summary
In this lesson, you identified the four main types of sensitive information that the CMMC program
is concerned with — FCI, CUI, CTI, and ECI. You also learned how CUI should be identified,
shared, marked, safeguarded, stored, disseminated, and destroyed.
Which type(s) of sensitive information do you think you will be working to protect
most often?
What are the challenges in managing sensitive information?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 2: Handling Sensitive Information |
--- PAGE 130 ---

--- PAGE 131 ---
Ensuring Compliance
through CMMC
Lesson Time: 3 hours, 55 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you know about the cybersecurity regulations and standards and how to manage
sensitive information, let's turn the focus on the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification
(CMMC) and its role in verifying compliance with those regulations. In this lesson, you will
describe the components of the CMMC Model architecture. You will also define the
CMMC implementation and assessment program and the ecosystem of organizations and
individuals that support it. In addition, you will define the role that self-assessment plays at
some levels of the CMMC program.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Describe the general architecture of the CMMC Model.
¢ Describe the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program and its ecosystem.
¢ Identify the obligations of CMMC self-assessments and attestation to compliance with
CMMC.
--- PAGE 132 ---
120 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPICA
Describe the CMMC Model Architecture
The Department of Defense (DoD) has worked with partners to develop the Cybersecurity Maturity
Model Certification (CMMC) model and program. In this topic, you will be introduced to the
components of the CMMC Model. These components detail the cybersecurity requirements that
Defense Industrial Base (DIB) organizations must implement to protect sensitive information.
Maturity Model
Maturity model: A model that assesses how institutionalized critical practices and processes are in
an organization and helps determine what capabilities they need in order to continue to improve
their performance.
° Amaturity model measures different characteristics versus a compliance model: ° Compliance is often seen as checklist driven, yes/no. ° A maturity model measures how well you perform a checklist practice consistently. e
° Practices must be institutionalized, or ingrained, in the organization operations. a
° The more deeply embedded practices are in the operations, the more likely the: -°
° Organization will continue to perform them, even under stress. e
° Outcome will be consistent and high quality. e
<q
nd
Figure 3-1: A maturity model promotes practices becoming ingrained in a company's culture.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 133 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 121
The Development Process of the CMMC Model
° Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (OUSD A&S) developed
the CMMC Model in collaboration with:
¢ DoD stakeholders.
° University of Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs).
° Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs).
e DIB sector entities.
e Interim versions were released for public review.
Initial CMMC Model and interim rule published September 2020.
¢ Interim rule became effective November 30, 2020.
In March 2021, the DoD started an internal review, informed by
850 public comments in response to the interim rule.
* CMMC Model 2.0 was released in November 2021.
e The rulemaking process is expected to take from 9-24 months.
Figure 3-2: The OUSD (A&S) collaborated with other entities and stakeholders to develop the
CMMC Model.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 134 ---
122 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC's Basis in Cybersecurity Standards and Best Practices
* The CMMC Model is aligned with well-recognized and widely endorsed standards:
* NIST SP 800-171
* NIST SP 800-172
* This alignment allows the DoD’s requirements to evolve as NIST updates their
requirements for protecting CUI.
* These changes to Model 2.0 were made in order to place more emphasis on
FedRAMP and DFARS along with the NIST standards.
Figure 3-3: Widely-accepted NIST standards provide the foundation for the CMMC Model.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 135 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 123
The CMMC Model 2.0
3 Expert cul FCI 110+ Practices
NIST SP 800-172
2Advanced CUI FCI 110 PracticesNIST SP 800-171
1 Foundational
Fc 17 Practices
FAR Clause 52.204-21
Figure 3-4: CMMC Model 2.0 identifies three Levels of practices that lead to increasingly stronger
cyber hygiene.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 136 ---
124 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CMMC Model Taxonomy
CMMC Model
Domains
Practices
Assessment Objectives
Figure 3-5: The CMMC Model is comprised of 14 domains containing numerous practices, as well
as the assessment objectives used to assess compliance with those practices.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 137 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 125
Domain
CMMC Model
Domains
Practices
Domain: A grouping of like practices
based on the 14 control families set
forth in NIST SP 800-171.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms, version 2.0
Assessment
Objectives
Figure 3-6: Each domain of the CMMC Model contains practices and assessment objectives an
organization must meet in order to demonstrate compliance at a particular CMMC Level.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 138 ---
126 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CMMC Model Domains
e Access Control - Manage who accesses your networks and systems.
e Audit and Accountability - Ensure you create logs and review them frequently.
e Awareness and Training - Ensure your people are trained appropriately.
¢ Configuration Management - Ensure your baselines and other configurations are kept up to date.
¢ Identification and Authentication - Know who is requesting access and authenticate appropriately.
¢ Incidence Response - Be able to recover once an incident occurs.
e Maintenance - Keep your systems up to date and patched.
° Media Protection - Ensure mobile media is protected against theft or loss.
e Personnel Security - Manage risks to your environment by insiders.
e Physical Protection - Employ physical protection mechanisms to prevent access to physical devices.
° Risk Assessment - Have a process for identifying and managing enterprise risk.
e Security Assessment - Independently verify your security posture.
e System and Communications Protection - Manage security tools and processes related to system security.
e System and Information Integrity - Monitor and protect the information system against malicious content.
Figure 3-7: These are the 14 domains of the CMMC Model.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 139 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 127
Practice
CMMC Model
Domains
Practices
Assessment
Objectives
Practice: An activity or set of activities
that are performed to meet the
defined CMMC objectives.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms, version 2.0
Figure 3-8: In CMMC parlance, a practice is one or more activities that an organization regularly
performs, demonstrating a particular cybersecurity capability.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 140 ---
128 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Practice Numbering System
Domain.Level.REQ
\ 1 /
AC.L1-3.1.1
Limit information system access to the types of transactions
and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute.
¢ Practice numbers indicate:
° Domain.
° Level.
e Requirement number.
° Practice numbers are inherited from the original NIST SP source.
e NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2
e NIST SP 800-172
Figure 3-9: The syntax for the practice numbering system is deciphered from left to right as
domain, level, and requirement number.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 141 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 129
Assessment Objectives
CMMC Model
Domains
Practices
Assessment | Assessment Objective (AO):
Objectives | Identifies the specific set of objectives
~ that must be met to receive MET for
the practice as defined in
NIST SP 800-171A.
Source: CMMC Self-Assessment Guide Level 1
Figure 3-10: The Assessment Objectives (AO) are the specific set of objectives that are required
for each of the CMMC practices.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 142 ---
130 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Accumulation of Practices through the Levels
Practices from
NIST SP 800-172
+ 93 practices from
NIST SP 800-171
17 practices from
NIST SP 800-171
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Foundational Advanced Expert
17 practices 110 practices 110+ practices
Figure 3-11: As an organization handles increasingly sensitive information, the number of
practices it needs to implement to protect that sensitive information accumulates accordingly.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 143 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 131
Distribution of Practices across Domains - Levels 1 and 2
Access Control ens 3 Risk Assessment 3
Response
Audit and MA Maint 6 CA Security 4
Accountability aintenance Assessment
Awareness and n ane
System and
Trainin Protecti 9 s\@a Communications 16
° roreesvon Protection
. . System and
Ma ne vemnent Personnel 2 Information 7
8 Security as
Identification
and Physical 6 All domains
Authentication Protection 110
Figure 3-12: In the CMMC Model, some domains include more practices than others.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 144 ---
132 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Distribution of Practices per Level across Domains
MLlevell mLevel2
ee eee—“C*isiSCSCsCSC‘(‘CNNNNN’WN:WS SWS
Auditand Accountability (AU) ii 3°
Awareness andTraining (AT) [i 3
Configuration Management (CV) Es 9
Identification and Authentication (|A) I 7 11
Incident Response (IR) [i 3
Maintenance (VA) i 6
Media Protection(M?) Ty >
Personnel Security (PS) [i 2
Physical Protection (PE) i 6
Risk Assessment (RA) [i >
Security Assessment (CA) i 4
System and Communications Protection (SC) i | 16
System and Information Integrity (S!) i 7
Osh oe f Sh GO oe SO AO oe 14 aS Melee, 19 20 7d 2
Figure 3-13: This chart shows how practices are distributed across Levels 1 and 2 for each
domain.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 145 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 133
CMMC Documentation (1 of 2)
° CMMC Model Overview
° Background for the creation of the CMMC Model.
° The model framework.
° CMMC Self-Assessment Guide - Level 1
° Assessment criteria and methodology used by OSCs to conduct a self-assessment.
° Practice requirements for CMMC Level 1, organized by domain.
* CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2
e Assessment criteria and methodology used by CCAs.
° Practice requirements/specifics for CMMC Level 2, organized by domain.
° CMMC Self-Assessment Scope - Level 1 ° Used by contractors to specify which assets in the environment are in scope, prior to performing a self-assessment. ° CMMC Assessment Scope - Level 2 e Information about the five asset categories.
e Used by CCPs and CCAs to identify the assets within the Assessment Scope. AtY Mary
Oo Qs
&i y
5 CF |
- CERTIFICATION ©
<M?
DOCUMENTATION
For the most current documentation - https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
Figure 3-14: A description of what is contained in the CMMC Model, the CMMC Assessment
Guides, and the Scoping Guidance.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 146 ---
134 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Documentation (2 of 2)
* CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
° Definitions of terms used in the CMMC Model.
° CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool User Guide
° Guidance on creating a cryptographic reference (or hash) for assessment
artifacts to ensure artifact integrity.
ey
&,
2
[>
v
al MATy,
> 2
A
° CMMC Assessment Process (CAP)
¢ Provided by The Cyber AB on their website - https://cyberab.org/
° The definitive source for conducting CMMC Assessments.
° Details the critical activities that need to be performed during an Assessment.
| CERTIFICATION ©
sic
DOCUMENTATION
For the most current documentation - https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
Figure 3-15: A description of what is contained in the CMMC Glossary, the Artifact Hashing Tool
User Guide, and the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP).
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 147 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 135
ACTIVITY 3-1
Looking Up Model Information in the CMMC
Documentation
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\ModelOverview_V2.0_ FINAL2_ 20211202 508.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\Glossary_MasterV2.0 FINAL 202111217 508.pdf
Scenario
As aCCP, your job requires you to ensure that organizations adhere to requirements outlined in
various documents, including CMMC documentation and government regulations and policies.
While you certainly don't have to memorize all of the information in these documents, you need to
become familiar with their content, understand how they work together to serve as your guidelines
for organizations that handle sensitive government information, have them available for your
reference, and be able to quickly locate specific requirements. In this activity, you will start to
practice this skill by looking up information in the CMMC Model Overview and the CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms documents.
1. Open the CMMC Model and the CMMC Glossary and Acronyms documents.
a) Navigate to the folder C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources.
b) Open the PDF file named ModelOverview_V2.0_FINAL2_20211202_508.
c) Open the PDF file named Glossary_MasterV2.0_FINAL_202111217_508.
2. In the Model document, examine the Table of Contents.
The document, which is relatively short, includes topics that describe each component of the CMMC
Model.
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 148 ---
136 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
L, ItrOGUCtiOnl ......cccccccccecuecusececcecececececereuaveneuaesnanauaneneneneneeceaesesuananeuseseceececececenereresseceanansnenen
1.1 DoCUMeNnt Organization. ................ccceccecssneeecsseseeceseseececeesacsusuceceuseceesuseseaansesseteneetereeeerateeeerenene 2
1.2 Supporting DOCUMENTS ............ccccceceecccensneceesceceusesceescereuseceseacersuseceaessecsuceecsescereesseeseeteresseceeses 2
2. CMIMIC Model ......ccccccccscsensessescenceccecesrsensuseceesauecuacesseesecsuesussueauseeessesecseesussusaesseesetsnseesseseeae D
2.1 OVEIVICW 2.0... ccccecncceeeeceeeeeeeeeecaeeueueeuenseseneneeseeeeeeeeeesasacaeauauseesusnsneeseaeeseeeeeesausaeetensneeseeeeteetereases OD
2.2 CMMC Le@Vels .0......cccccceeececeeeeceeeseeeenenseeeneneeseeeeeeeeeecueacaeaueuseesuseseaeneeeeeseeeeeesaeaaeeesusnseeeseseeteeeees 3
2.3 CMMC Domidins o........ cece ecce cece eeeneeeneeeeecneeeeeeeeeeeeesaeaeaeeuanseesusnseeteeeaeeseeeeeesaeaaeetensneeseeeeteetereaeees D
2.4 CMMC PractiCe .........cccecececeecaceneeeeeeneeeeeceeeseeeeeeeeeecueaeaeeuanseesusnseeeeteaeeseteesesaesasetetsteeseeeteeetereaees O
3, SUIMIMALY vc ccecececessenececeaneceeennseenensueeeeeeceeeesenseeeuenseeceenecessuseeausuececesneesssesoesesceeesessereessronseesean LO
Appendix A. CMMC Model Matrix .......0cccececccceseeeeeeeneeeeeseeceeeeeeeeeeseseeseeeeeneeeeeeesesseseseeeneeseeees LT
Appendix B. Source Mapping..........scsccsssssssssssssseeseseesesnesseseeessssesseseesaseseeseeesssesesssssssseseseee OO
Appendix C. Abbreviations and Acronyms...ccssccceccssesseerseesssasecenesseesseesseessseseeccsseasssssenensees 41
Appendix D. References........ccscccccecsssseessesseeeessseeesseeneesseeeesseeeesennneesseesssseseassneeeesseesssssseacsenee OQ
a) Take a moment to briefly scan the PDF and get a sense of the information it covers, scrolling from
page to page until you have examined the entire document.
3. Refer to the PDFs as you answer the following questions.
4. Why does the CMMC Model have multiple levels?
5. Use the CMMC Glossary to better understand a term in the CMMC Model.
a) Turn to section 2.4.2 List of Practices in the CMMC Model document.
b) Search for Risk Assessment
c) Note that RA.L2-3.11.1 uses the term "Periodically". Does that term mean some specific period in
CMMC, such as annually or quarterly?
Look up the term in the CMMC Glossary and Acronyms document.
What is the definition of "periodically"?
6. Return to the CMMC Model.
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | TopicA
--- PAGE 149 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 137
7. Practice number AC.L2-3.13 specifies that the organization should "Control
the flow of CUI in accordance with approved authorizations." At what CMMC
Level would an organization become responsible to demonstrate they follow
this practice?
8. Close the documents and exit the PDF reader.
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic A
--- PAGE 150 ---
138 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC B
Define the CMMC Program and Its Ecosystem
Now that you have learned the requirements for each Level in the CMMC Model, we can turn our
focus to the implementation and assessment program. In this topic, you will learn how those
cybersecurity requirements will be implemented in the DoD contracting process and how
organizations will be assessed. You will also be introduced to the people and organizations in the
CMMC ecosystem.
Rationale for the Introduction of the CMMC Program
¢ Under FAR 52.204-21 and DFARS 252.204-7012, companies in the DIB are required to:
° Self-attest to their compliance with cybersecurity requirements.
e List gaps ona Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).
* DoD wanted a mechanism to ensure consistency with cybersecurity compliance that is
commensurate with the nature of the sensitive information.
° CMMC is designed to provide increased assurance to the DoD that:
¢ DIB contractors can adequately protect sensitive unclassified information.
° The DoD wants to shift to security being viewed as foundational to acquisition.
¢ Not traded along with cost, schedule, and performance.
Figure 3-16: The CMMC Model is designed to provide assurance of cybersecurity compliance to
the DoD.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 151 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 139
Increased Expectations with the CMMC Program
e CMMC assesses contractors’ compliance in meeting their responsibilities in handling FCI/CUI.
° Must protect the FCI/CUI received from, or created for, the government for a defense contract.
° CMMC requires flow down of cybersecurity requirements from Prime contractors to subcontractors.
¢ Need to clearly define:
e The nature of the data to be exchanged.
¢ How it will be handled in their respective environments.
° Follow all regulations for FCI/CUI handling and records management.
¢ In Levels 2 & 3, CMMC builds upon existing regulations by adding third-party verification of:
* Compliance with cybersecurity requirements.
¢ Institutionalization of cybersecurity practices in DIB company culture.
Figure 3-17: CMMC verifies implementation and institutionalization of cybersecurity practices.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 152 ---
140 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Benefits for Contractors
° Better overall cyber hygiene.
e Increased ability to continue mature processes across lines of businesses.
e Heightened awareness of where sensitive data resides on internal networks/systems.
° And last, but certainly not least, the ability to bid on DoD contracts.
Figure 3-18: Contractors also benefit from CMMC, including the ability to bid on and be awarded
DoD contracts.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 153 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 141
Key Aspects of the CMMC 2.0 Framework
¢ Streamlined Model
¢ Ensures that the most critical requirements are included by reducing the model from 5 levels to 3 levels.
° Aligns to the widely accepted National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) cybersecurity standards.
* Reliable Assessments
° Reduces the assessment costs for Level 1 organizations.
° Allows Level 1 and some Level 2 organizations to demonstrate compliance through self-assessments.
e Allows a small subset of Level 2 organizations to demonstrate compliance through self -assessments.
° Increases accountability of third-party assessors.
e Increased oversight of adherence to professional and ethical standards.
¢ Flexible Implementation
° Fosters a spirit of collaboration between the DoD and the DIB in building a culture of cyber resilience.
° Allows organizations to use time-bound Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) in limited circumstances.
* Only possible after meeting a minimum score.
¢ Not all requirements will be allowed on the POA&M list.
¢ Increases the flexibility and speed of certification.
¢ Allows waivers to entire CMMC requirement on a very limited basis in mission critical instances.
¢ Only with senior DoD leadership approval.
Figure 3-19: The three key aspects of the CMMC 2.0 program requirements are a streamlined
model, reliable assessments, and flexible implementation.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 154 ---
142 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC 2.0 Rulemaking and Timeline
Rulemaking Timeline
° On November 4, 2021, CMMC 2.0 was released to the public.
° The DoD is pursuing official rules in two federal regulations.
° 32 CFR will codify CMMC as a program.
° 48 CFR will codify CMMC requirements and allow DFARS 52.204-7021 to be the final rule.
* Both rules will have a Congressional review and a public comment period for stakeholder input.
The rulemaking process is expected to take 9 to 24 months.
In the Interim
° The CMMC pilot programs for assessments are suspended.
* No CMMC requirement will be included in DoD solicitations.
* Contracting organizations are encouraged to strengthen their cybersecurity practices.
° Project Spectrum is a platform to help the DIB assess and build their cybersecurity capabilities.
° Organizations should begin to work toward compliance to CMMC 2.0 practices.
* The DoD is considering incentives for organizations who voluntarily obtain CMMC certification
° Specifics will be detailed during the rulemaking period.
¢ More information can be found at https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/About/.
Figure 3-20: The rulemaking and timeline for CMMC Model 2.0.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 155 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 143
CMMC Level Determined by DoD Contracts
* The CMMC Model is composed of three different,
yet cumulative, Levels.
° Solicitations and Requests for Information (RFls) will indicate
the required CMMC Level.
¢ Based on the sensitivity of the information to be shared with the contractor.
e FCl requires Level 1.
° CUl requires Level 2 or Level 3.
e Acompany may choose any of the Levels they feel are correct for their different lines of business.
° NO requirement to achieve CMMC Level 1 prior to moving to any other CMMC Level.
° CMMC Level 2 certification will need to be achieved before moving on to Level 3.
Figure 3-21: The contracts an organization desires to bid on will determine which CMMC Level
they seek.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 156 ---
144 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Assessment Requirements
* CMMC 2.0 adds a verification component with respect to cybersecurity requirements.
* Tiered assessments based on the sensitivity of the information provided the contractor.
¢ Foundational: FCI not critical to national security - self-assessment.
¢ Advanced: CUI critical to national security - third-party assessment.
CUI not critical to national security - self-assessment.
¢ Expert: CUI in high priority/most critical defense programs - government-led assessments.
Foundational Advanced
Annual self-assessments
Triennial third-party Triennial government-led
assessments assessments
Annual self-assessments
for select programs
Figure 3-22: The type of assessment at each CMMC Level is based on the sensitivity of the
information being shared by the government.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 157 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 145
Self-Assessments vs. Third-Party Assessments
Self Assessments
Level 1 and a small subset of Level 2.
For OSCs who handle FCI only.
For OSCs who handle CUI that is not critical
national security information.
OSCs assess their compliance to
cybersecurity practices.
Conducted annually.
Senior company official required to sign off
to attest to the self-assessment.
Self-assessment scores and affirmations
posted to the Supplier Performance Risk
System (SPRS).
Third-Party Assessments
Level 2.
For OSCs who handle CUI critical to national
security.
C3PAQOs assess the OSC’s compliance with
cybersecurity practices.
Conducted triennially.
C3PAO provides an assessment report to the
DoD.
*Pending final ruling: OSCs requiring a
government-led Level 3 assessment will need
a third-party Level 2 assessment first.
Figure 3-23: All organizations can self-assess their compliance to the 17 practices at Level 1;
however, organizations aiming for Level 2 and higher will need a third-party assessment.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 158 ---
146 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Benefit — Independent Third-Party Assessment
° Third-party assessments
° Are independent.
¢ Are impartial.
° Provide validation of the contractor's cybersecurity protections.
° Allow potential issues to be identified and remediated before contract.
° Critical mission of The Cyber AB:
° Consistency among assessors.
° Assessors experienced/trained in the CMMC Model and Assessment Process.
° Certified CMMC Assessors will work for C3PAOs.
° C3PAOs will contract with members of the DIB for a CMMC Assessment.
° Assessors will NOT be allowed to assess an OSC they consulted with.
Figure 3-24: Independent and impartial third-party assessments validate the contractor's
cybersecurity protections.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 159 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 147
CMMC Certification - Levels 2 and 3
° Certification is awarded to OSCs who undergo and pass an assessment led by an external team.
° OSCs who self-attest are only affirming their compliance and do not receive official certification.
° Certification is awarded:
° At the entity level, not based on project or contract.
° Ona 3-year, renewable basis.
° For a company to receive their CMMC Certification at Level 2, they need to:
° Contract with a C3PAO for the CMMC Assessment.
° Coordinate with C3PAO for logistics and any preparatory artifacts the assessor requires.
° Facilitate the on-site portion of the assessment.
° Meetings.
° Interviews.
° Artifacts.
° Successfully demonstrate all practices for their desired CMMC Level.
° For a company to receive their CMMC Certification at Level 3, they will need to work with the government-led team, once the Assessment Guide and assessment processes are defined.
CERTIFICATION
> fe
Figure 3-25: The basic requirements for a CMMC Level 2 Certification starts with contracting with
a C3PAO to conduct the CMMC Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 160 ---
148 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The OSC's Path to CMMC Level 1 Attestation
1. Understand the CMMC requirements.
DoD ClO CMMC Model site:
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Model/
2. Identify the scope (Enterprise, Organizational
Unit, or Program Enclave).
Ce OOS bg
Identify the desired CMMC Level.
Conduct a gap analysis.
Close any identified gaps.
Conduct a self-assessment on an annual basis.
Attain a senior official’s signature.
Register self-assessments and attestations in
SPRS.
An OSC can tackle this process independently or ask
members of the CMMC ecosystem for assistance.
== =. ~
Figure 3-26: OSCs can work independently or with members of the CMMC ecosystem to self-
assess and attest to Level 1 compliance.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 161 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 149
The OSC's Path to CMMC Level 2 Certification
1. Understand the CMMC requirements.
DoD ClO CMMC Model site :
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Model/
2. Identify the scope (Enterprise, Organizational
Unit, or Program Enclave).
Identify the desired CMMC Level.
Conduct a gap analysis.
Close any identified gaps.
Find a C3PAO in the CMMC Marketplace to
perform a Level 2 assessment.
Assessment is conducted by the C3PAO’s
certified Assessment Team.
C3PAO submits Assessment Report to the DoD.
When approved, CMMC Certification is issued
to the OSC.
* Certification is valid for 3 years.
* OSC expected to maintain compliance with
the CMMC Model throughout this time.
Figure 3-27: Details for the steps in an OSC's path to CMMC Level 2 Certification.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 162 ---
150 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CMMC Ecosystem
Authorities Office of the Undersecretary
of Defense (OUSD)
CMMC Assessors and
The Cyber AB aehineres Instructors Certification
Organization (CAICO)
Organization
Seeking
Certification (OSC)
CM IMIS Tule) Aegeie Licensed Partner Licensed Training
Assessment Practitioner
Organization (C3PAO) Organization (RPO) Publishers (LPP) Providers (LTP)
Certified CMMC
Registered Professionals (CCP)
Practitioners (RP)
Individuals
Certified CMMC
Certified CMMC Instructors (CCI)
Assessors (CCA)
CMMC Lead
Assessor
Figure 3-28: The CMMC ecosystem contains authorities, organizations, and registered or
certified individuals.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 163 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 151
Authorities
° Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (OUSD A&S)
° DoD office that procures what is necessary for national defense.
* Owner of the CMMC Model and Assessment Guides.
ed a ° The Cyber AB (formerly known as the CMMC Accreditation Body or CMMC-AB)
¢ Non-profit organization that operationalizes CMMC assessments and training.
* Must achieve and maintain ISO/IEC 17011 accreditation requirements.
e Must achieve compliance with ISO/IEC standard before authorized to accredit C3PAOs & CAICO.
* CMMC Assessors and Instructors Certification Organization (CAICO)
° Future organization designed to be authorized to certify CMMC assessors and instructors.
° Must also achieve and maintain ISO/IEC 17024 accreditation requirements.
Source: https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Assessments/
Figure 3-29: The OUSD (A&S), The Cyber AB, and the CAICO are the authorities over the CMMC
ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 164 ---
152 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Roles and Responsibilities — Authorities
° The OUSD (A&S) will:
Maintain the CMMC Model and Assessment Guides.
Rely on CMMC certification to make decisions about contracts.
Build on existing regulations (i.e., DFARS 252.204-7012) to add
verification of cybersecurity compliance.
Oversee the CMMC Assessment ecosystem.
Approve all Cyber AB conflict of interest policies for the ecosystem.
¢ The Cyber AB will:
Build an ecosystem to implement the CMMC Model and program.
Certify CMMC organizations (C3PAOs, RPOs, CAICO)
Certify individuals performing services (RPs)
Provide additional guidance and documentation, such as:
* On The Cyber AB website https://cyberab.org/.
° In the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) documentation.
° The future CAICO will:
° Certify CCPs, CCAs, and CCls.
¢ Oversee LPP and LTP organizations responsible for curricula and training.
e Manage the creation and delivery of CMMC exams.
Figure 3-30: The authorities are responsible for ensuring that the CMMC Model is adopted and
institutionalized across the ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 165 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 153
Organizations Under the Authority of The Cyber AB
CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organization (C3PAO)
° Purpose of C3PAO:
* Authorized to manage the Assessment process for an OSC.
° Certified to provide consultative advice to an OSC.
° Required to comply with ISO/IEC 17020.
* Requirements and Benefits - https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Assessors
Registered Practitioner Organization (RPO)
Organization authorized to provide recommendations and consulting advice about CMMC
Assessment preparation.
* Implementers/consultants providing advice but do not conduct Certified CMMC Assessments.
° Familiar with basic constructs of the CMMC Standard.
° Requirements and Benefits - https://cyberab.org/CM MC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Consulting-
and-Implementation
Organization Seeking Certification (OSC)
* Organization going through the CMMC Assessment process to receive a level of Certification
for a given environment.
* When rulemaking is complete, CMMC certification will be a requirement for DoD suppliers.
* Roadmap - https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/DIB-Companies-OSCs
Figure 3-31: OSCs, C3PAOs, and RPOs are under the authority of The Cyber AB in the CMMC
ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 166 ---
154 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
C3PAO Requirements and Benefits
Requirements Benefits
Sign the C3PAO License Agreement.
Provide verification of insurance.
° General Liability with the Cyber AB as a Nani: ITS ¢ Errors and Omissions Policy
° Cybersecurity Breach Policy
Pay application and C3PAO activation fees.
* Activation fee valid for one year following Authorization date.
Pass an organizational background check. * Via data provided to The Cyber AB by Dun & Bradstreet. * Have a DUNS number. Maintain an association with at least one CCP, PA, or CCA. * 30-day grace period applies. Be a 100% U.S. citizen-owned business and successfully
pass a FOCI and SF-328 review.
Pass a DIBCAC-performed CMMC Level 2 Assessment.
Sustain ISO 17020 Certification.
Obtain CMMC Level 2 Certification.
No businesses with Foreign Ownership are currently
considered.
e C3PAO is authorized to enter into a contract to
deliver CMMC Assessments with:
° Assessed organization
° Certified CMMC assessors
e Partnership Kit includes:
* C3PAO is listed on Cyber AB directory
° C3PAO is provided an AB Accreditation logo
* Official Tools include:
* CMMC Assessment Standard and Model
* CMMC Assessment Process (CAP)
e CMMC Assessment Guides
* Other job aids provided when available
To Perform CMMC Assessment at Any Level
* CMMC Maturity Certification
e Assessment Data Storage Infrastructure
e Assessment Team Composition
For the most up-to-date information, go to https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Assessors
Figure 3-32: The requirements and benefits for C3PAO involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 167 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 155
RPO Requirements and Benefits
Requirements Benefits
e Register with The Cyber AB and receive authorization from The Cyber AB. ¢ Authorized to represent the
organization as familiar with the basic
e Will be sent to applicants for review when available.
* Must pass an organizational background check. ¢ Via data provided to The Cyber AB by Dun & Bradstreet. * Have a DUNS number. ¢ Provide verification of insurance (Minimums noted in RPO Agreement)
¢ General Liability
¢ Errors and Omissions Policy
¢ Cybersecurity Liability Policy
¢ At all times, at least one Registered Practitioner
(RP) must be associated with the RPO.
° 30-day grace period applies.
Cyber AB provided logo.
* Offer consulting advice, but not
assessments.
° Signifies agreement to the CMMC Code of
Professional Conduct (CoPC).
° Listed on the CMMC Marketplace.
For the most up-to-date information, go to https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Consulting-and-Implementation
Figure 3-33: The requirements and benefits for RPO involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 168 ---
156 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
OSC Requirements and Benefits
Requirements
e Pass a CMMC Assessment.
e Self-Assessment for Level 1.
* Government recognized for CMMC Levels 2 and 3.
Benefits
¢ Supply DoD with goods and services.
° CMMC Level 2 Certification is valid for 3 years.
For the most up-to-date information, go to https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/DIB-Companies-OSCs
Figure 3-34: The requirements and benefits for OSC involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 169 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 157
Organizations Under the Authority of the CAICO
Licensed Partner Publisher (LPP)
¢ LPP’s purpose is to create accredited content for use by the LTPs.
° Organization authorized to publish CMMC training curricula.
* Requirements and Benefits - https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Training-and-
Instructors
Licensed Training Provider (LTP)
¢ LTP’s purpose is to conduct Certified CMMC classes using LPP curricula.
° Organization authorized to train certified CMMC individuals.
° Providers of education and training services include:
° Universities and colleges
* Online schools
° Professional schools
° Corporate internal training departments
° Any direct-to-consumer learning providers
¢ Requirements and Benefits - https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Training-and-
Instructors
* Directing authority will change to the CAICO once it is formed.
Figure 3-35: LPP and LTP organizations will be under the authority of the future CAICO in the
CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 170 ---
158 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
LPP Requirements and Benefits
Requirements for Certification
Benefits
e Pay the application fee.
Listed as a Licensed Partner Publisher on the
CMMC Marketplace.
e Pass an organizational background check via
Dun & Bradstreet and have a DUNS number.
Marketing support from The Cyber AB.
e Sign the Code of Professional Conduct.
° Sign the LPP License Agreement.
After accreditation, content marked as “Cyber
AB Approved Training Material (CATM).”
e Pay LPP Activation Fee.
The organization may be marketed as “Cyber
AB Licensed Partner Publisher.”
Required Deliverables
° Develop educational content that maps to The Cyber
AB certification exams.
e Must develop at least one course.
° Content must map to 100% of exam objectives.
* Content must be approved by The Cyber AB
authorized approving organization before publication.
Qualifiers
e Atleast 200 hours of published curriculum in
technology, cybersecurity, auditing or similar content.
° At least 2 years of publishing history of content in
technology, cybersecurity, auditing, or similar content.
e Atleast 3 suitable client references.
For the most up-to-date information, go to https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Training-and-Instructors
Figure 3-36: The requirements and benefits for LPP involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 171 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 159
LTP Requirements and Benefits
Requirements for Certification Benefits
e Pay Application fee. ° Licensed to provide Certified Training to the
° Pass an organizational background check via CMMC stakeholders.
Dun & Bradstreet and have a DUNS number. ° Listed as a Licensed Training Provider on the
* Sign the Code of Professional Conduct. CMMC Marketplace.
* Sign the LTP License Agreement. e Marketing support from the Cyber AB.
* Pay LTP Activation fee. ° The organization may be marketed as “Cyber
9 ; Ongoing Requirements icensed Training Provider
AB Li d Training Provider.”
e Must deliver at least one Certified class per year.
° Certified classes must use Cyber AB Approved
Training Material (CATM).
° Certified classes must be taught or facilitated by
Cyber AB Certified Instructors.
Qualifiers
e At least 2 years of experience in providing training
and educational services.
° Proven capacity to provide educational services, in-
person or online.
e Atleast 3 suitable client references.
For the most up-to-date information, go to https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Training-and-Instructors
Figure 3-37: The requirements and benefits for LTP involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 172 ---
160 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Roles and Responsibilities - Organizations (1 of 2)
Ar
Organizations Seeking
Certification (OSC) will:
CMMC Third-Party
Assessment Organizations
(C3PAO) will:
Registered Practitioner
Organizations (RPO) will:
Identify the desired CMMC
Level.
° Consult with CMMC
registered or certified
individuals for guidance (if
desired).
Self-assess Level 1
compliance.
Seek a C3PAO to conduct a
Level 2 assessment.
° Conduct CMMC
Assessments.
° Provide consultation to help
OSCs:
° Design cybersecurity
programs that will meet
CMMC requirements.
° Prepare for an assessment.
e Have CCA on staff.
¢ Provide non-certified
consultative services to help
OSCs:
° Design and implement
cybersecurity programs that
will meet CMMC requirements.
° Prepare for an assessment by a
C3PAO.
Have at least one RP on staff
trained in basic CMMC
methodology.
Figure 3-38: The roles and responsibilities of the OSC, C3PAO, and RPO.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 173 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 161
Roles and Responsibilities — Organizations (2 of 2)
Licensed Partner Publishers (LPP) will: Licensed Training Providers (LTP) will:
° Create CMMC training curricula based on exam objectives. ¢ Submit curricula for inspection and approval by a third-party content
review organization.
¢ Provide the infrastructure necessary to
deliver CMMC training to students.
e Use only approved curricula from LPPs.
Figure 3-39: The roles and responsibilities of the LPP and LTP.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 174 ---
162 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CAICO Individuals - Assessment
Certified CMMC Professionals (CCP)
Individuals credentialed as understanding the requirements of CMMC for a DoD supplier.
Eligible to continue training to become a Certified CMMC Assessor (CCA).
Individuals whose involvement in the CMMC ecosystem is designed by T he Cyber AB.*
Timeline for CCP certification exam and assessment participation is planned for 4th quarter of 2022.
Certified CMMC Assessors (CCA)
Individuals certified to assess all practices on CMMC Level 2 Assessments.
CCA’s participate as an Assessment Team Member during a CMMC Assessment.
Individuals whose involvement in the CMMC ecosystem is designed by The Cyber AB.*
Timeline for CCA certification exam and assessment participation is planned for 4** quarter of 2022.
¢
a
I ¢ @ l ¢ le
Assessment Team Members
Individuals (CCPs or CCAs) working under the leadership of a Lead Assessor.
Lead Assessors
The individual who overseas and manages a discrete CMMC Assessment Team.
Training and designation requirements are still being developed by the DoD and The Cyber AB.*
Must be a current CCA.
Timeline for certification designation is planned for spring/summer 2022.
* Directing authority will change to the CAICO once it is formed.
Figure 3-40: CC
Ps and CCAs are Assessment Team Members managed by a Lead Assessor. All
are individuals who will participate in CMMC Assessments under the authority of the future
CAICO.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through C MMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 175 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 163
CCP Requirements and Benefits
Citizenship Requirements Benefits
¢ CCP participating as a CMMC Assessment Team Member on L2 Assessments: e U.S. citizenship is required. ° Eligible to become a Certified CMMC Assessor.
‘a ° Allowed to participate on the Assessment
= Team for a CMMC L2 Assessment.
* CCP not participating as a CMMC Assessment Team Member:
° Listed in the CMMC Marketplace.
° No USS. citizenship is required.
° Will not participate on L2 Assessments.
Prerequisites
Fees
One of the following: °
° College degree in a cyber or information technical field, or
Registration and application fees are non-
refundable.
° 2+years of related experience or education, or °
CCP Training Fess
° 2+years of equivalent experience (including military) in a
Individual Exam Fees
cyber, information technology, or assessment field.
Annual Maintenance Fees
Suggested CompTIA A+ or equivalent
knowledge/experience.
Complete a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) class offered by an LTP.
Fill out Certified CMMC Professional
Application
Pass the CCP exam.
Pass DOD CUI Awareness Training.
* No earlier than three months prior to the CCP exam. For the most up-to-date information, go to
https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Assessors
Figure 3-41: The requirements, prerequisites, fees, and benefits for CCP involvement in the
CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 176 ---
164 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CCA Requirements and Benefits
Requirements
U.S. citizenship
Complete 3 Assessments as a CCP as
an Assessment Team Member.
Complete a CCA class offered by an LTP.
Pass the exam for the Certified CMMC
Assessor credential.
Have, or gain, a favorably adjudicated Tier 3
Suitability Determination resulting in no
security clearance.
Benefits
Eligible to become Lead Assessor.
Listed in the CMMC Marketplace.
A member of the largest part of the Level 2
CMMC community.
CCAs conduct over 85% of assessment
requirements, such as:
° Lead Assessor activities.
° Practice evaluation.
« POA&M requirements for the Assessment.
At least one CCA on staff at every C3PAO.
At least one CCA on every Assessment
Team.
For the most up-to-date information, go to
https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Assessors
Figure 3-42: The requirements and benefits for CCA involvement in the CMMC ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 177 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 165
CAICO Individuals - Training
Certified CMMC Instructors (CCI)
Purpose
¢ Authorized to train CCPs and CCAs.
° To establish a trainer cadre for the CMMC ecosystem.
Requirements
¢ Requirements, benefits, and timeline for certification and assessments are still being
developed by the DoD and The Cyber AB.*
¢ Must hold the certification for the course they are teaching (CCP or CCA).
e 2+years of instructional experience in the information technology/cybersecurity field.
° Facilitate classes through an LTP and use LPP curricula.
Benefits
¢ Only people that can review LPP content and train LTP content.
Timeline @
¢ Timeline for CCI certification exam is 1%t quarter of 2023.
* Directing authority will change to the CAICO once it is formed.
Figure 3-43: CCI are individuals who are authorized to train CCPs and CCAs in the ecosystem
under the authority of the future CAICO.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 178 ---
166 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Registered Practitioners (RP)
Purpose
° To deliver a non-certified advisory
service informed by basic training on
the CMMC Standard.
° Implementers/consultants in Certified CMMC
Assessments.
* Do not participate in Certified CMMC
Assessments.
Benefits
° Authorized to represent oneself as familiar
with the basic constructs of the CMMC
Standard with a Cyber AB provided logo.
° Signifies that you have agreed to the
CMMC Code of Professional Conduct.
° Listed on the CMMC Marketplace.
Requirements
° Register and sign an agreement on The Cyber AB
website.
° Will be sent to applicants for review when available.
° Pass acommercial background check.
° Complete basic, online Cyber AB-provided
training.
° Sign the CMMC Code of Professional Conduct.
° Will be sent to applicants for review when available.
Figure 3-44: Registered Practitioners have been trained by The Cyber AB to be implementers and
consultants, but do not participate in CMMC Assessments.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 179 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 167
Provisional Assessors (PA)
Purpose Transition from PA to CCA
° Provisionally trained to conduct Assessments at Level 2, during the interim period. e Pass the CCP exam within 6 months of its
availability.
° Diverse pool of PAs will provide valuable feedback about the Assessment process to: e The Cyber AB, the DoD, and the subjects of the Pilots and Pathfinders. e Pass the CCA exam within 6 months of its
availability.
Benefits
, . a a
¢ CMMC-AB trained with provisional training
PA Minimum Qualifications materials.
* Must meet one of the following: * As part of a C3PAO team, available to implement
¢ 10+ years of experience conducting evidence-based mock CMMC Pilots and Pathfinders.
assessments in cyber or other technology field, . . .
including ISO, FedRAMP, CMMI, RMM CERT, DIBCAC or e Available to engage directly with DIB contractors
similar, or as a C3PAO team participant.
* 20+ years experience as a consultant or leader in e Represent provisional qualification with a
cybersecurity and qualifying for DOD 8570 IAM Level III verifiable logo and listing on the CMMC
certification. Marketplace.
Assessor Prerequisites Sunsetting Timeline
* Complete the CCP application process. ° Complete the formal AB-provided PA training. ¢ The PA course is no longer available to assessor
candidates.
* Engage with clients through a C3PAO. ° Satisfy all CCP and CCA requirements found at https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-
roles/Assessors * Full retirement upon 6 months after the public
release of the CCA exam.
Additional information can be found at https://cyberab.org/faq
Figure 3-45: The PAs in the CMMC ecosystem were the first assessors trained by The CMMC-AB
before it was rebranded as The Cyber AB. During the interim period, PAs can conduct CMMC
Assessments at Level 2.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 180 ---
168 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Provisional Instructors (Pl)
Purpose Benefits
¢ To establish a cadre of assessors for the CMMC ecosystem during the interim period. * Qualified to deliver all Cyber AB certification
j program training through an approved LTP.
¢ Cyber-AB trained and tested, instructors will deliver
training via in-person or virtual classrooms. : . .
8 P Sunsetting Timeline
Requirements ¢ The PI course will be retired upon 6 months after
* Must meet one of the following: the public release of the CCl exam.
* CMMC Provisional Assessor (PA), or
* Certified CMMC Professional (CCP), when available, or
° 10+ years of experience conducting evidence-based
assessments in cyber or other technology field,
including ISO, FedRAMP, CMMI, RMM CERT, DIBCAC or
similar, or
° 20+ years experience as a consultant or leader in
cybersecurity and qualifying for DOD 8570 IAM Level
Ill certification.
¢ Complete the CCP application process.
e Must be done prior to submitting the PI application.
¢ Complete the PI application process.
¢ Submit payment for one of the PI training events.
¢ Payment due at time of registration.
° Take the Pl class and pass the PI exam. Additional information can be found at
* Pass the CCI exam within 6 months of its public https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Ecosystem-roles/Training-
availability. and-Instructors
Figure 3-46: The Pls in the CMMC ecosystem were the first instructors trained by The Cyber AB,
starting when it was known as the CMMC-AB.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 181 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 169
Roles and Responsibilities — Certified Individuals
Lead Assessor will:
* Oversee and manage a dedicated CMMC Assessment Team for a particular OSC.
Lo]
SIRE 222225000020 oS a aaa :
I I
© Collaborate with and follow the Lead ° Provide certified consulting services:
I ad Assessor’s guidance. oO ¢ Design and implement practices and create '
; oo" * Assess all practices on CMMC L2 process documentation. :
: Assessments. * Help determine the probable scope of the!
assessment. }
| ° Help prepare and store evidence. '
: ¢ Follow the Lead Assessor’s guidance. :
e Assess L1 practices on CMMC L2 Assessments.
I I
eee eee eee eee eee eee eee P
Figure 3-47: The roles and responsibilities of a Lead Assessor and the CCAs and CCPs who are
Assessment Team Members.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 182 ---
170 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CMMC Marketplace
* Centralized access point for Organizations Seeking Certification (OSCs).
* Connect to Cyber AB accredited and credentialed personnel and organizations:
° Client or Credentialed Organizations.
° Registered or Certified Individuals.
¢ https://cyberab.org/
CMMC
Marketplace
LLL fl BE EEBa'
Figure 3-48: The CMMC Marketplace provides a centralized location for OSCs to search for and
connect with organizations and individuals in the ecosystem.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 183 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 171
Third-Party Assessments
° Required for majority of Level 2.
* Optional for Level 1.
e Provides assurance that OSC’s self-assessment & attestation are accurate.
° Must be led by a Lead Assessor.
° CCPs and CCAs will form the rest of the Assessment Team.
° Off-site supporting team members may not necessarily
be certified by The Cyber AB.
e Will start once the contract is signed between
the OSC and the C3PAO.
e Assessment Team size and number of days on site
will depend on:
e Size of company being assessed.
° Complexity of their IT systems.
¢ Geographic footprint.
° Phases of an Assessment:
¢ Plan for coordination and exchange of artifacts.
¢ Conduct on-site assessment.
e Report assessment findings.
° The OSC should know their CMMC Level decision before assessors depart.
Figure 3-49: CMMC Assessments are carried out by the Assessment Team Members under the
leadership of the Lead Assessor.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 184 ---
172 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Roles and Responsibilities - Level 2 Assessments
C3PAOs will: Lead Assessor will:
e Contract with members of the DIB to manage assessments. ° Hire full-time (W2) and part-time (1099) CCAs and CCPs. ¢ Perform initial quality checks on
assessment reports.
e ° Take lead on the CMMC Assessment.
_ * Assign tasks to CCAs, CCPs and other
members of the Assessment Team.
* Communicate with the OSC & the C3PAO.
— SL --------
CCAs will:
o ° Assess L1 and L2 Practices.
° Support the Lead Assessor.
CCPs will:
° Assess L1 Practices.
>] ° Support the Lead Assessor.
e Assist with administrative tasks.
Figure 3-50: The roles and responsibilities of C3PAOs, Lead Assessors, CCAs, and CCPs in a Level
2 Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 185 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 173
ACTIVITY 3-2
Defining the CMMC Program and Ecosystem
Scenario
As you begin your journey toward becoming a Certified CMMC Professional, it's critical that you
understand the CMMC program and the ecosystem built to implement it.
1. Given all the legal, policy, and cybersecurity regulations that are established,
what unique benefits does the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification
offer?
2. From a Prime contractor's point of view, which of the following statements are
true? (Choose two.)
L] L] L] L] CMMC guarantees a DoD contract award.
CMNMC provides a heightened awareness of sensitive data in internal systems.
CMQMC forces non-compliant companies out of the marketplace.
CMMC makes you eligible to bid on DoD contracts.
3. Which of the following are the authorities in the CMMC ecosystem? (Choose
two.)
Osc
OUSD (A&S)
CQA
The Cyber AB
C3PAO
OOUOOO
CMMC Marketplace
4. Which of the following is described as an independent, impartial method for
validating the contractor's cybersecurity protections?
© Decentralization of resources
O Third-party review
O Self-certification
O Supplier performance risk system
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 186 ---
174 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
5. Which of the following best describes the authorized roles of a CCP and a
CCA? (Choose two.)
L] ACCAcan be aconsultant and lead the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a CCP can only
consult for an OSC.
L] ACCAcan be aconsultant and serve on the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a CCP leads
the assessment for that same OSC.
L] ACCP can be an Assessment Team Member for multiple OSCs; while the CCA leads the
Assessment Team for multiple OSCs.
[|] ACCP can be aconsultant or serve on the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a CCA leads the
Assessment Team for multiple OSCs.
6. What are the consequences of non-compliance with CMMC?
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic B
--- PAGE 187 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 175
TOPIC C
Define Self-Assessments
With the introduction of CMMC 2.0, some organizations will perform self-assessments to affirm
their compliance with the CMMC Model. In this topic, you will define the obligations of self-
assessment.
Accountability
* Companies have responsibilities.
° Protect the environment.
¢ Protect their employees.
¢ Protect the interest of their shareholders or stakeholders.
¢ Most people are not experts in all aspects of running a company so they:
¢ Create and hire HR experts in local, state, and federal labor laws.
¢ Hire OSHA experts in occupational safety.
° Hire defense contracting experts.
° Cybersecurity should not be any different.
° Hire experts to keep your company aligned with cybersecurity rules.
¢ Good for your company as a competitive differentiator.
° Good for the country as you protect sensitive information.
Figure 3-51: Contractors need to recognize that they are accountable for the cybersecurity of
sensitive DoD information.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 188 ---
176 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
History of DIB Cybersecurity Compliance Requirements
e Under FAR 52.204-21 and DFARS 252.204-7012:
* Contractors implicitly self-attested they met requirements by signing a federal contract.
° No verification of compliance.
e Under DFARS 252.204-7019:
* Contractors must submit a NIST SP 800-171 self-assessment score to the DoD.
¢ Allowed a plan of action for any gaps.
° No verification that plan to close gaps is implemented.
Figure 3-52: Prior DIB cybersecurity requirements didn't have a formal process to verify
compliance.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 189 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 177
Interim Rule Self-Assessments and SPRS
¢ September 29, 2020, DoD Interim Final Rule (DFARS 252.204-7019-D041):
° Supplements CMMC program with a DoD Assessment Methodology.
° Amends DFARS to achieve a two-step review process of contractors.
° Mandates contractor certification through NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Methodology.
° Until CMMC Certification program is fully implemented.
° Contractors must have a current security assessment on file prior to contract award.
° In effect, beginning November 30, 2020.
° “Current” means not more than three years old, unless solicitation specifies an exception.
° Conduct a self-assessment.
° Submit the summary score to the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS).
¢ URL: https://www.sprs.csd.disa.mil/
e Exceptions:
° Those exclusively dealing with COTS. Interim Rule
° Those who do not store, process, generate, transmit or access CUI.
° Those who believe they are exempt should be prepared to
demonstrate justification.
Figure 3-53: This two-step review process allows the DoD to prioritize CMMC Assessment of
higher risk systems while providing an intermediary review of lower risk contractors and
suppliers awaiting CMMC Certification.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 190 ---
178 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
LimietOme-with Prior Cybersecurity Regulations
° Due to complexity of cybersecurity regulations, being in compliance is not always clear cut.
° Many small or micro companies have no internal IT or Cyber expertise to rely on.
¢ Large or Prime contractors have IT staff and resources.
° No verification of compliance means critical military information might not be secure.
¢ No way to know until:
¢ A breach is reported.
e An enemy debuts a new weapon clearly based on U.S. designs.
Tallahatchie Machine Co.
314159 Perfect Circle 4/1/2021
Money, MS 38930 =
Paywoe Joes Cybersecurity Services Five thousand one-hundred thirty-two and !Viog $| 5132.19
bolas EE. |
Memo For cybersecurity services Billie Yo WerWMlister w ;
k 0740000 78: 22345676" O2103 i
Figure 3-54: Self-assessment without verification of compliance has drawbacks and limitations
that can result in failing to secure information that needs to be protected.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 191 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 179
Cybersecurity Compliance Requirements Under CMMC 2.0
* CMMC 2.0 aims to ensure accountability that companies implement cybersecurity standards.
° Adds a verification component to DFARS 252.204-7012 that is based on trust.
° Tiered assessments based on the sensitivity of the data shared with the contractor.
* Foundational Level 1: Self-assessment with company’s executive signature as attestation of compliance.
¢ Advanced Level 2: Third-party assessment for contractors with information critical to national security.
Self-assessment for those who do not have information critical to national security.
¢ Expert Level 3: Government-led assessment as verification of compliance.
Additional information can be found at https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Assessments/
Figure 3-55: CMMC 2.0 creates a tiered system of assessments and compliance checks based on
the sensitivity of the data.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 192 ---
180 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Self-Assessment Under CMMC 2.0
Self-assessment: Assessing your organization’s compliance to the practice requirements.
Self-attestation: Making an official declaration that something complies with regulations without
independent substantiating evidence.
¢ Contractors are required to conduct a self-assessment for Level 1 practice requirements.
e A limited number of Level 2 assessments might also be conducted as self -assessments.
e Senior company official must sign to attest the accuracy of the self -assessment score.
e Must be conducted annually.
¢ Self-assessment scores must be reported to SPRS.
rj~*
Figure 3-56: In CMMC 2.0, contractors self-assess and self-attest to their compliance with the
Level 1 practice requirements.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 193 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 181
Consequences of Non-Compliance
° Failure to receive an award.
° Loss of existing contract.
° Loss of ability to compete on future DoD contracts.
¢ Contractual liability.
° E.g., breach of contract or civil/criminal penalties.
e Prosecution under the False Claims Act.
qc
Figure 3-57: Failing to comply with cybersecurity regulations can lead to negative consequences
for an organization.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 194 ---
182 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The Christian Doctrine
ulations shall
even if not explicitly stated.
* Standard for inclugion is "significantly or deeply ingrained
strand of public pr@curement."
e Exception to:
° General rule that
notice of contgact
vernment must put vendors on
quirements.
° Standard com ial contracting practices and contract
interpretation principles.
¢ Rationale
° Procurement policies set by higher authority cannot be
avoided or evaded (deliberately or negligently) by lower
government officials.
Result of court case
° GL. Christian & Associates v. United States, 312 F.2d 418
(Ct. Cl. 1963)
Figure 3-58: Based on a FAR-related court case, the Christian Doctrine states that mandatory
procurement clauses are inherent in all federal contracts.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 195 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 183
The False Claims Act
° Individuals/companies that knowingly defraud the government can be held liable.
e 3X the contract value plus a penalty of $11,000+/claim.
* Sometimes called the Lincoln Law because implemented during the Civil War. oe ed
* Qui tam provision: :
* Claims can be brought by non-government people on behalf
of the government.
° Informally called whistleblowers.
* Person filing gets 15-30% of the damages.
° Vast majority of FCA actions initiated by whistleblowers.
° Claims typically involve fraud in military spending and health care.
.*. Includes claims that services are rendered in accordance with the contract.
compliance with cybersecurity regulations.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 196 ---
184 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Christian Doctrine, False Claims Act, and Cybersecurity
° DoD contracts
° Include FAR 52.204-21 or DFARS 252.204-7012.
° Even if not included explicitly, can still be read in under the Christian Doctrine.
° If a contractor is not actually in compliance, they are at risk for a False Claims Act.
° Civil Cyber-Fraud Initiative
¢ Launched on October 6, 2021, by the U.S. Department of Justice to protect against increasing cyber threats.
¢ Will utilize the False Claims Act to pursue cybersecurity-related fraud by government contractors.
¢ https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/deputy-attorney-general-lisa-o-monaco-announces-new-civil-cyber-fraud-initiative
Figure 3-60: The Christian Doctrine and the False Claims Act mean all DIB contractors are
potentially at risk if they don't comply with cybersecurity regulations, especially with the
announcement of the Civil Cyber-Fraud Initiative.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 197 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 185
Guidelines for Identifying Cybersecurity Legal Obligations
The most critical part of meeting legal obligations is to READ THE CONTRACT!
Determine which federal cybersecurity regulations are applicable:
° Some might come directly from the government in a contract.
° Some might "flow down" to a subcontractor from the Prime's contractual
requirements.
If unsure, ASK!
¢ Ask the Prime.
° Ask the contracting officer.
Know the pertinent regulations.
° FAR 52.204-21.
¢ DFARS 252.204-7012.
° Christian Doctrine means you are accountable even if they are not explicitly in contract.
Figure 3-61: It is important to know the cybersecurity regulations in which you are legally
obligated to comply.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 198 ---
186 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Best Practices for Accurate Self-Assessment at Level 1
Cybersecurity compliance is both an obligation and a responsibility.
° Focus of CMMC is to assess current security levels to build stronger security culture across the DIB.
e Protecting the country.
¢ Be thorough.
e Use the CMMC Self-Assessment Scope Level 1 to know what assets process, store, or transmit FCI.
e Use the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide Level 1 to ensure all the basic
safeguarding requirements as specified in FAR 52.204-21 are met.
e Use aconsultant, if needed, to assist with: iy
° A gap analysis to ensure your environment is compliant.
¢ The self-assessment to feel confident it is accurate. | CERTIFICATION
NX_ 7
2)
®& CMMC Self-Assessment Guide
% y Level1
Version 2.0 | December 2021
Figure 3-62: An accurate self-assessment at Level 1 can be tricky to navigate—use the CMMC
resources and get help if needed.
Notes
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 199 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 187
ACTIVITY 3-3
Identifying the Risks of Inaccurate Self-
Assessments
Data File
C:\093200Data\Ensuring Compliance through CMMC\Aerojet Rocketdyne Case Study.docx
Scenario
Self-assessment provides a way for an organization working under contract with the government to
attest to their cybersecurity compliance. As a CCP, it is critical to understand the importance of
accurately self-assessing and the risks of inaccurate reporting those results.
1. Read a case study where self-assessment failed.
a) Navigate to C:\093200Data\Ensuring Compliance through CMMC folder.
b) Open Aerojet Rocketdyne Case Study.docx
2. What is the charge against Aerojet Rocketdyne?
3. Which of the arguments that Aerojet Rocketdyne attempted to use in an effort
to dismiss the case surprised you?
4. Explain the court's ruling and the ramifications it has for self-attestation.
5. What are the consequences with the court case still being unsettled six years
after the noncompliance was reported?
name,
_
Note: On July 8, 2022, the Department of Justice announced in a press release
7 that the Aerojet Rocketdyne lawsuit had been settled (https://
www.justice.gov/opa/pr/aerojet-rocketdyne-agrees-pay-9-million-resolve-false-
claims-act-allegations-cybersecurity).
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 200 ---
188 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
6. Which of the following statements about self-assessment are accurate?
(Choose two.)
L] Self-assessment enables organizations to officially declare their compliance with cybersecurity
regulations without third-party verification.
L] Mandatory procurement clauses and cybersecurity regulations must be explicit in a contract as
governed by the Christian Doctrine.
L] Before CMMC, the government was unable to prosecute those who were less than honest about
their self-assessment scores.
L] The False Claims Act provides some protection against those who knowingly defraud the
government; but it is not a sufficient nor an efficient method of protection.
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC | Topic C
--- PAGE 201 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 189
Summary
In this lesson, you were introduced to the CMMC Model. To become familiar with the components
of the CMMC Model architecture, you defined the model hierarchy including the domains, practices,
and Assessment Objectives at each of the three Levels. You were introduced to the program that
details how the DoD will use this model within its contracting processes, including what kind of
CMMC Assessment will be performed at each level. You were also introduced to the ecosystem of
organizations and individuals that supports the program's implementation. The last topic covers the
obligations of self-assessments and how they are used to affirm an OSC's compliance to the CMMC
Model.
What is the biggest change that CMMC will bring to you or your company?
How does the CMMC Model align with other cybersecurity frameworks that you
are familiar with?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
= other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 3: Ensuring Compliance through CMMC |
--- PAGE 202 ---

--- PAGE 203 ---
Performing CCP
Responsibilities
Lesson Time: 1 hour, 25 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you are familiar with the CMMC Model, you can turn your focus to the role of a
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) in securing the nation's defense information.
Understanding the responsibilities and the guidelines for ethical behavior in this role will
help you become a valuable part of the CMMC ecosystem.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Identify a Certified CMMC Professional's responsibilities.
¢ Demonstrate ethical behavior required of a CCP as outlined in the Code of Professional
Conduct.
--- PAGE 204 ---
192 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Identify Responsibilities of the CCP
For some organizations, obtaining CMMC Certification will mean having to adopt a new,
cybersecurity-oriented mindset. Cybersecurity cannot continue to be an afterthought; it needs to be
baked into the organization's DNA. This means it should be adopted across the entire organization
and considered from the early stages of every project. As a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP),
you will likely be influencing not only the technical aspects of the organization's network, but also
operational and business decisions. In this topic, you will learn about the responsibilities of a CCP.
Professional Conduct
¢ CCPs must adhere to the CMMC Code of Professional Conduct (CoPC), which:
° Outlines expectations of Certified CMMC Professionals acting on behalf of the DoD and The Cyber AB.
° Identifies responsibilities governing the work performed.
e Places responsibility to the CMMC process and your country ahead of personal objectives.
° Specifies that a CCP must comply with the following guiding principles:
° Professionalism.
¢ Objectivity.
¢ Confidentiality.
e Proper Use of Methods.
° Information Integrity.
e As employees of C3PAOs, CCPs are also required to follow professional conduct
requirements from:
e ISO/IEC 17020:2012, including ethical concepts such as:
° Impartiality and independence.
° Confidentiality.
° DOD specific guidance, policy, and updates to existing regulations, addressing issues such as:
° Non-disclosure of non-public information.
° Personal conflicts of interest.
i}
hee)
AX
Foe aN
Figure 4-1: CCPs are bound by the terms of the CMMC Code of Professional Conduct (CoPC), as
well as ISO/IEC and DoD conduct requirements, which help to maintain expectations of ethical
conduct in the duties performed by the CCP on behalf of the DoD and The Cyber AB.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 205 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 193
Various Roles Performed by a CCP
* May serve as a consultant - an advisory role.
° In-house advisor for your own organization.
e External advisor for an OSC through a C3PAO.
° May serve as an Assessment Team Member.
¢ Through a C3PAO.
¢ Under the guidance of a Lead Assessor.
e You can work in only one role through a C3PAO.
* You can't work as both roles for the same OSC.
Figure 4-2: As a consultant, the CCP will help guide the Organization Seeking Certification (OSC)
in their implementation and instantiation of the CMMC controls, and as an Assessment Team
Member, the CCP will provide support under the direct guidance of the Lead Assessor.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 206 ---
194 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Separation of Duties Regarding the Same OSC
° For each OSC, your role is defined by what is permissible under the CoPC.
¢ No existing relationship.
¢ Haven't worked/don't intend to work in the other role for the same OSC.
° If you have been a consultant, you can't be an Assessment Team Member.
° If you have been an Assessment Team Member, you can't later consult.
Figure 4-3: A CCP cannot serve as an Assessment Team Member for an OSC where the CCP has a
existing relationship, which would violate the CoPC and perhaps impact the CCP's ability to
adhere to the guiding principles specified in the CoPC.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 207 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 195
In-House vs. External Consultant
Consultant
In-House Consultant External Consultant
May be involved in the development
and/or implementation of OSC
policies, practices, and artifacts.
May help to act on findings from a
CMMC gap analysis and/or readiness
review.
e May be interviewed with respect to
their support during a formal CMMC
Assessment. e May provide guidance in the
development of OSC policies,
practices, and artifacts;
implementation is conducted by the
OSC.
° May help to articulate findings
derived from a gap analysis and/or
readiness review.
° May not be interviewed with respect
to their support during a formal
CMMC Assessment.
Figure 4-4: There are limitations on what the CCP should do, depending on whether the CCP is
functioning as an in-house or external consultant.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 208 ---
196 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Consultant Responsibilities
CCP Consultant Responsibilities
* The CMMC Model focuses on sensitive information.
° Where and how it is stored.
° How different groups within the organization work with that information.
° How the information is shared with outsiders.
e Asaconsultant, you will likely be heavily influencing:
° Technical aspects of the organization’s network.
° Operational and business decisions.
¢ Areas of responsibility as a consultant:
° Architecture.
° Governance.
e Assessment preparation.
Consultant Responsibilities
GOVERNANCE
ARCHITECTURE
ASSESSMENT PREP
Figure 4-5: The information-centric approach requires you to look not only at the underlying
system architecture, but also at how groups in the organization work together with that
information, and how it's shared with outsiders including the government and any Prime or
subcontractors.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 209 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 197
Architecture
° Designs, implements, and/or maintains system architectures and data flows.
° That will meet or exceed the requirements for the desired CMMC certification level.
¢ Determines and/or validates system boundaries.
° With respect to the protection of federated data (FCI/CUI).
° Ensures adequate resources are available to perform activities in support of design,
implementation and/or maintenance of system architectures and data flows.
Figure 4-6: As a CCP, it's critical you understand the OSC's architecture and data flows.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 210 ---
|
198 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
aovernance
_— MEASURE :
* Ensure data is collected (and acted on) that can be used to demonstrate practice adoption
throughout the organization.
* Acting on data means both ensuring that the organization is:
* Addressing alerts/warnings generated by the tools that implement and/or monitor the practices.
* Periodically reassessing its compliance with the CMMC Model.
Governance
Ongoing collection &
monitoring of data
Follow-up on alerts
and warnings
Periodic reassessment
of CMMC compliance
Figure 4-7: The CCP might also be asked to perform tasks related to governance.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 211 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 199
Assessment Preparation
¢ Collect and provide mapping of Evidence to CMMC domain practices.
° Review Evidence to ensure:
e Practice objectives are met.
° The Evidence provided is both adequate and sufficient.
° Identify and communicate Assessment-impacting issues.
e Determining courses of action, where applicable.
e Ensure OSC team readiness through:
° Mock interviews.
¢ Review of Evidence provided.
Figure 4-8: The CCP might also be asked to perform tasks related to Assessment preparation.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 212 ---
200 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CCP Assessment Team Responsibilities
° Certification Assessment Readiness Review (CA-RR) ° Reviewing Evidence to ensure the Assessment will proceed as smoothly as possible.
° Assessment
° Reviewing Evidence to ensure it demonstrates that the
organization has sufficiently adopted the practices
needed for certification.
nececeinent
Team
Important note: These responsibilities cannot be
performed by the same person(s) or organization(s) who
prepare the organization for Assessment.
In-House CCPs employed by the OSC and involved in the
preparation may be qualified to provide Evidence.
Figure 4-9: As an Assessment Team Member, a CCP might be involved in a Certification
Assessment Readiness Review (CA-RR) and an Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 213 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 201
Guidance for CCP Separation of Duties
° CCPs who provide consulting support to an OSC:
° Cannot support a future Assessment of the same OSC.
° CCPs who serve as Assessment Team Members:
° Must execute their duties under the supervision of the Lead Assessor.
Figure 4-10: Always remember the importance of maintaining separation of duties based on the
role you play as a CCP.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 214 ---
202 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 4-1
Identifying the Responsibilities of a CCP
Scenario
CCPs may be pulled in many different directions and must always strive to use good judgment in
matters of ethics. In this activity, you will consider some of the types of ethical questions a CCP
might have to consider.
1. When you were preparing to become a CCP, you were working for Better
Industries Inc., helping them identify gaps in their effort to obtain CMMC Level
2 Certification. After obtaining your CCP certification, you left Better Industries
and took a position with the Best Group, a CMMC Third-Party Assessment
Organization (C3PAQ). Now, Better Industries is undergoing the Assessment
process, and the Best Group that will be managing Better Industries' CMMC
Level 2 Assessment. Since you are no longer employed by Better Industries,
you reason that it is acceptable for you to serve on the Assessment Team. Is
your reasoning correct?
2. Narrow Valley Industries (NVI) obtains more than half of its business through
government contracts. Since compliance with government regulations and
policies is so important to their business, they have decided it would be
helpful to have someone in their organization who is thoroughly familiar with
CMMC. They have offered a position in their company to your colleague,
Dave Farragut, who is a CCP. Will Dave be able to retain his CCP certification
if he accepts the position at NVI?
3. As a CCP and external consultant, you have been helping the Capstan
Company perform a gap analysis as they prepare for CMMC Level 2
Certification. Because you are also knowledgeable in computer networking
and cybersecurity, they would like you to help them redesign their network to
create a "secure enclave" in one wing of their building where all government
projects will be worked on, isolated from people and systems in other parts of
the building. As a CCP functioning as an external consultant, are you
permitted to provide this type of technical consulting?
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic A
--- PAGE 215 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 203
TOPIC B
Demonstrate Appropriate Ethics and Behavior
In order for a cybersecurity cultural change to occur, you must have ethical practices to ensure that
the CMMC Model is implemented in a consistent manner. In this topic, you will learn about the
Code of Professional Conduct.
CMMC Code of Professional Conduct (CoPC)
° Required agreement effected by and between The Cyber AB and all CMMC ecosystem members.
° Defines the expectations, responsibilities, and guidelines for work performed under the terms of
the agreement.
¢ The CoPC provides specific guidance that is designed to reinforce:
° Objectivity
° Fidelity
* Communication
° Credibility
Strive for consistency in every engagement.
If there are questions regarding interactions, or other aspects
of the CoPC:
¢ Discuss with the C3PAO assigned to the engagement.
° Reach out to The Cyber AB for clarification and/or guidance.
Responsibilities for Code of Conduct signatures.
¢ C3PAO or RPO need to ensure all employees/contractors commit to the CoPC.
° CCPs, CCAs, RPs, and other registered and credentialed individuals.
e All other employees.
Figure 4-11: All CMMC ecosystem members are required to sign a CoPC and pass the applicable
background investigation prior to the authorization of their credentials.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 216 ---
204 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CoPC Guiding Principles
¢ Professionalism.
° Act with integrity.
¢ Represent yourself in alignment with your certification and NDAs.
° Objectivity.
° Take a fair and balanced approach to decision making.
° Avoid conflicts of interest.
° Confidentiality.
° Secure sensitive and/or protected information and artifacts.
e Proper use of methods.
e Ensure compliance to CMMC source model documentation and
CMMC Assessment Process (CAP).
¢ Information integrity.
° Ensure accurate reporting of CMMC data and artifacts.
Figure 4-12: The five guiding principles of the CoPC are designed to ensure the highest degree
of moral and professional conduct.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 217 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 205
CoPC Practices (1 of 2)
° Professionalism.
° Refrain from dishonesty in all dealings.
° Do not exaggerate services provided.
* Do not mislead about your service accreditation.
¢ Remain true to the contract or Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) you have signed.
¢ Avoid Conflicts of Interest to the extent possible.
¢ Behave transparently and disclose any unavoidable Conflicts of Interest.
e Act to minimize the impact.
° Confidentiality.
¢ Protect identifiable and confidential customer data from unauthorized disclosure.
e Exercise due diligence and care in handling of confidential data.
* Do not copy materials without explicit permission from the client.
e Adherence to materials and methods.
e Maintain compliance with The Cyber AB materials and methods.
¢ No derivative works using The Cyber AB or DoD intellectual property.
Figure 4-13: Expectations put forth by the CMMC CoPC.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 218 ---
206 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CoPC Practices (2 of 2)
¢ Information integrity.
° Report results from engagements objectively, accurately, completely and clearly.
e Ensure accuracy and authenticity of OSC data shared.
° No misrepresentations or assertions of facts related to engagement.
¢ Respect for intellectual property.
* Do not violate customer and/or third-party intellectual property.
* Do not infringe upon registered trademarks or copyright.
° Obtain written authorization for distributing/changing DoD or The Cyber AB materials.
¢ Lawful and ethical practices.
° Conduct all activities in a manner that is lawful.
° Refrain from harassment or discrimination.
° Do not commit fraud, larceny, or similar offenses.
° Report all offenses (civil/criminal) to The Cyber AB within
30 days of offense (includes larceny, embezzlement,
misappropriation of funds, misrepresentation, perjury, etc.).
Figure 4-14: Expectations put forth by the CMMC CoPC.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 219 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 207
The CoPC and Ethical Violations
¢ Ethical, or other violations, of the CoPC may result in administrative action.
¢ Examples of unethical conduct may include:
¢ Prior relationship with the OSC or key members of the OSC, which may impede objectivity.
e Failure to consider presented Evidence in accordance with CMMC Assessment Guides and
CMMC Assessment Process (CAP).
Failure to comply with evidentiary rules for characterization of OSC Evidence.
° Guiding, or providing leading questions, during interview sessions with the intent of “helping” the
organization.
¢ Discussion and/or removal of OSC Assessment data, artifacts, and/or notes.
° In the event of a reported violation:
° Seek first to clarify the alleged unethical conduct:
° Context.
° Circumstances.
° Extenuating factors.
° If clarification is unsuccessful, submit CoPC violation report to The Cyber AB.
¢ The Cyber AB will conduct investigation, as appropriate.
° Investigation may result in a corrective action (e.g., warning, remediation, suspension, denial/termination of
CMMC credentials, etc.).
Figure 4-15: Potential CoPC violations and how they should be managed.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 220 ---
208 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Professional Conduct Best Practices
e Remember: As a CCP, you are representing our CMMC ecosystem stakeholders.
° Imperative that you conduct yourself with the highest level of professionalism.
° Courteous.
¢ Respectful.
° Honest.
° Helpful.
* Communication is key to a successful engagement.
¢ Be approachable.
¢ Be confident.
¢ Work to build trust between the Assessment Team and the OSC.
¢ Initial contact should strive to reinforce these tenets.
e Establishes the foundation of each and every engagement.
Figure 4-16: Best practices for the professional conduct of a CCP.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 221 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 209
Conflicts of Interest
Conflict of interest: A situation where an individual has competing obligations that
might lead to compromises in decision-making and damage to the integrity of the
outcome.
* Occurs when an individual has multiple interests (financial, organizational, etc.) and acting in the
best interest of one could serve to work against the best interests of another.
° Conflicts of interest (or the perception of them) undermine objectivity.
° For example: : =
* Family member worked/works at the OSC. Bs oe TES
° Prior work history with the OSC. is eae ES eS
* Previous CMMC work in a different CCP role. fe | BUSINESS S TIES.
° If you consulted for an OSC, you can't be on their Assessment Team. ; ; €
OLD DENPLOYER
:
: aS POLITICAL GAIN ‘
Figure 4-17: It is critical for the CCP to avoid any conflicts of interest or the appearance of such.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 222 ---
210 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Guidelines for Ethical Behavior
¢ Act ethically and professionally:
e Are you keeping your roles as a consultant and Assessment Team Member separate
regarding each OSC?
e Are your actions consistent with the CMMC Assessment Process and the CMMC
Assessment Guides?
* Does a shared understanding of the roles, responsibilities, and expectations exist?
¢ Are the interactions mutually respectful?
° Disclose potential conflicts of interest:
¢ Is there an existing relationship with the OSC (business or personal) that may
introduce bias, or otherwise impede objectivity?
* Can you demonstrate how objectivity is maintained to minimize the impact?
¢ Follow ethical practices regarding legal obligations:
e Are you meeting contract requirements?
° Are you complying with all Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs)?
Figure 4-18: Consider these questions to help guide and maintain consistency of your ethical
behavior across all of your engagements.
Notes
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 223 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 211
ACTIVITY 4-2
Looking Up Ethical Guidelines in the CoPC
Data File
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\Code of Professional Conduct_V2.4.pdf
Scenario
As aCCP, you will be responsible for reading, signing, and adhering to the CMMC Code of
Professional Conduct (CoPC). In this activity, you will examine the CoPC and refer to it to answer
questions about the behavior expected of a CCP (and others who the CoPC applies to).
1. Open the CMMC Code of Professional Conduct, which has been provided in
your course data files, and get acquainted with the general types of
information it contains.
a) In your course data files at C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources, open the PDF file named Code of
Professional Conduct_V2.4.
b) Examine the table of contents.
The document contains sections named Introduction, Guiding Principles, Practices, and
Implementation. The appendix contains a list of terms, and the document concludes with a signature
page.
2. Identify the purpose of the CoPC and who it applies to.
a) Scroll to the Introduction, and briefly examine the purpose of the document and the lists of people it
applies to.
The CoPC:
¢ Applies to people who are issued credentials by The Cyber AB, are registered practitioners or
providers, training publishers, industry working group members, and others.
¢ Sets "performance standards by which the roles of the CMMC ecosystem will be held
accountable, and the procedures for addressing violations of those performance standards."
* ls intended to help "members in situations where we may be asked to compromise our values
and integrity."
3. Identify the guiding principles underlying the CoPC.
a) Scroll to the Guiding Principles section, and briefly examine the principles that are outlined.
4. Refer to Section 2 Guiding Principles as you answer the following question.
If you find yourself in an unavoidable situation that leads to the appearance of
a conflict of interest, how should you proceed?
5. Identify what is covered in the Practices section.
a) Scroll to the Practices section.
b) Briefly scan the text in this section to get a general idea of what it covers.
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 224 ---
212 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
This section covers mandatory expectations for everyone who plays a role in the CMMC ecosystem
(which, as a CCP, will include you). Subsections cover "Professionalism", "Confidentiality",
"Adherence to Materials and Methods", "Information Integrity", "Respect for Intellectual Property",
and "Lawful and Ethical Practices".
6. Refer to Section 3 Practices as you answer the following question.
In the past, you have performed services for Develetech Corporation. They
have requested the organization you work for (a C3PAO) to conduct their
CMMC Assessment. You are not clear on whether the work you have done
for them would constitute a conflict of interest. Identify where you can find any
statements in the Code of Professional Conduct that might help you
determine what would constitute a conflict of interest.
7. Scan the remainder of the document.
a) Scroll through the remainder of the document, briefly examining other sections that are covered.
b) Examine the Signature Page section.
Each person covered by the CoPC is responsible for signing this page. Before you do so, make sure
you read the entire document carefully, and consider the responsibilities you are taking on.
Periodically review the CoPC so you are always clear on what is being expected of you.
8. You suspect that one of your colleagues might be in violation of the CoPC.
How does the CoPC recommend that you deal with such a situation?
9. How would you handle this suspected violation with your co-worker? You
notice that your co-worker, Todd, has been meeting with the OSC, after
business hours each day of the assessment. Todd is in charge of reviewing
the policies, processes, and procedures being used as evidence for some of
the Assessment Objectives, and you noticed that all have been updated in the
evenings. You have a feeling Todd has been working with the OSC to update
their policies, processes, and procedures.
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 225 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 213
10.Exit the application you are using to read the CoPC PDF.
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities | Topic B
--- PAGE 226 ---
214 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Summary
In this lesson, you have learned about the two primary roles of a CCP—consultant and Assessment
Team Member—as well as the different responsibilities for each role. You have also learned how the
Code of Professional Conduct guides all members of the CMMC ecosystem to act ethically and
professionally.
Which of the two CCP roles are you primarily interested in pursuing? Why?
How does the CMMC CoPC compare to other codes of conduct you're familiar
with from professional organizations or companies?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 4: Performing CCP Responsibilities |
--- PAGE 227 ---
scoping Certification and
Assessment Boundaries
Lesson Time: 5 hours, 15 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you are familiar with the overall CMMC Model and the ecosystem, you can turn
your focus to learning about the core driver of the model, the sensitive information, and the
job tasks that you will perform as a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP). In this lesson, you
will learn about cataloging the sensitive information in an organization, determining how the
sensitive information moves, and identifying the systems that are in scope for the
Assessment as a result of this movement.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
* Use the CMMC Assessment Scope documentation.
¢ Take inventory of the OSC's environment to prepare to identify the scope boundaries
for a CMMC Assessment.
¢ Determine how sensitive information moves into, within, and out of the OSC
environment, which will prepare you to determine where protections must be
implemented.
¢ Establish appropriate scope boundaries for a CMMC Assessment.
¢ Apply separation techniques to limit scope.
--- PAGE 228 ---
216 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Use the CMMC Assessment Scope
Documentation
As a CCP working as a consultant with an Organization Seeking Certification (OSC), you should be
familiar with the CMMC Assessment Scope documentation in order to provide guidance on
determining which assets are in scope and will be assessed against the CMMC practices.
Scope
—y Scope: The scale or extent of what will be evaluated for conformity, which
includes those assets (people, facilities, technology) within the OSC’s
environment that are targeted for CMMC Assessment because they interact
with sensitive information—for example, by containing it, touching it in
transit, or operating on the same network as it.
Scoping: The process of setting or determining the scope.
e In-scope components of the OSC environment:
° Will be evaluated through the CMMC Assessment process.
e Are in scope because they handle FCI, CUI, or other sensitive information, or are not logically or physically
isolated from systems that handle FCI, CUI, or other sensitive information.
e Must be protected from cybersecurity threats.
° Benefits of carefully determining what is in scope include:
° Helping to ensure the OSC is protecting every system they really need to protect.
° Helping to ensure the OSC is not wasting resources building up security on systems that really don’t need it.
¢ Enables organizations to consider how they might redesign their systems and business processes to limit
scope, when possible, thereby:
° Limiting their implementation costs.
° Improving security by reducing the attack surface.
Figure 5-1: The process of establishing scope is an important task for a CCP serving as a
consultant to an OSC, and it is also performed by the CMMC Assessment Team.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 229 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 217
High Level Scoping
FF Headquarters (HQ) Organization: The legal entity that will be delivering services or products
A under the terms of a DoD contract.
HH ° Directly linked to the Systems Security Plan (SSP) and/or associated practices that protect
FCI and/or CUI.
¢ The HQ Organization itself could be the OSC, or it could designate a Host Unit as the OSC.
Host Unit: The specific people, procedures, and technology within an HQ Organization that
would be applied to the DoD contract and that are to be considered as the OSC for CMMC
Assessment purposes.
* Documented within the:
° OSC asset inventory.
e SSP.
e Network diagrams of the OSC.
Supporting Organizations/Units: The people, procedures, and technology external to the HQ
Organization that support the Host Unit. The affiliated assets may need to be included as part
of the CMMC Assessment Scope.
¢ Subcontractors.
° External service providers (ESPs) /Third-Party Providers.
° (e.g., AWS, Microsoft 365).
e May also include administratively separate entities within the same organization.
° (e.g., IV&V support, Human Resources, Training).
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 5-2: High level scoping involves an understanding of whether the OSC is the entire HQ
organization or a host unit within the HQ organization, as well as knowledge of what supporting
organizations/units will be included in the CMMC Assessment Scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | TopicA
--- PAGE 230 ---
218 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
High Level Scoping Examples
Large Prime Contractor
HQ Organization
EEH Facilities
r Tre People = ~ Technology
—_—_
f DivisionYY
Division
Host Unit
& OSC
y,
ESP
Facilities
—_
Subcontractor_
Facilities
Small to Medium Size Prime Contractor
HQ Organization
EE Facilities
Host Unit
& OSC i ir People
Ay,
J Technology
( Subcontractor
f__
S==£ FacilitiesSSE
Facilities
3 bs) People
~
8 3 People
ie J
“a Technology
* y,
bl AE
mm | Technology|
|
J
a
Supporting Units
Lal Technology
=
vette |
J
a 4
Supporting Units
Figure 5-3: For a large contractor, the host unit and OSC might be a division of the HQ
Organization. For a small or medium contractor, the HQ organization itself is likely to be the host
unit and OSC.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 231 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 219
CMMC Scoping Guidance
CMMC Level 1 Scoping Guidance
© Prior to completing the Level 1 CMMC Self#Assessment, the CMMC Self-Assessment
Scope must be completed.
* This Self-Assessment Scope informs which assets within the contractor’s environment will be assessed.
° This Self-Assessment Scope informs the details of the Self-Assessment.
CMMC Level 2 Scoping Guidance
° Prior to engaging in an assessment, contractor assets must be categorized.
e Assets are categorized into one of five categories.
* This categorization informs the specification of the
assessment scope for a CMMC Assessment.
3] CMMC Self-Assessment Scope
Published by the DoD
https://dodcio.defense.gzov/CMMC/Documentation/
Figure 5-4: Published by the DoD, the CMMC Scoping Guidance documentation provides help in
determining which assets are in scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 232 ---
220 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Factors for Determining Assets in Scope
Data in .
e When CUI/FCI is actively being used by a system component.
° For example, entered, edited, manipulated, printed, viewed.
v
Data at
Rest
e Storage
¢ When CUI/EFCI is inactive or at rest.
° For example, located on electronic media, system component
memory, paper.
Data in
Motion
OOOO ¢ Transmission
° When CUI/FCI is being transferred from one information system
or one location to another.
ties ° For example, data being transmitted over a network or shipped
via postal mail.
Figure 5-5: Any asset involved in the processing, storing, or transmission of sensitive
information will be in scope fora CMMC Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 233 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 221
Guidance on Level 1 Scoping Activities
In order to appropriately scope at Level 1, the contractor must consider all people, technology,
facilities, and external service providers involved with the processing, storage, or transmission of FCI
within their environment.
gi° People
* Employees, contractors, vendors, and external service provider personnel.
° Technology
* Servers, client computers, mobile devices, network appliances (e.g., firewalls, switches, APs,
and routers), VoIP devices, applications, virtual machines, and database systems.
° Facilities
* Physical office locations, satellite offices, server rooms, datacenters, manufacturing plants, and
secured rooms.
ESP
= * External Service Providers (ESPs)
6 * External people, technology, or facilities that the organization uses, including cloud services, co -
aig located data centers, hosting providers, and managed security service providers.
I ai
=
Figure 5-6: The scoping activities for Level 1 involve considering the people, technology,
facilities, and external service providers that process, store, or transmit FCI.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 234 ---
222 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Cloud-Based External Service Providers
* Cloud-based environments (or virtualized environments) provide an excellent opportunity for cost
savings, both in terms of capital and operational expenses.
* Provides convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g.,
networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with
minimal management effort or service provider interaction (NIST SP 800-145).
° Facilitates sharing of leading-edge technologies and services which could subsequently help to offset
the scope/cost of the OSC's CMMC Assessment.
° Provides implementation of some cybersecurity controls.
Figure 5-7: Cloud-based External Service Providers are common in business today because they
help save costs.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 235 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 223
Level 1: FCI Assets
CMMC Level 1
FCI Assets process, store, or transmit FCI.
me 2 Process
* FCI can be used by an asset.
eFor example, accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, or printed.
—— ike) a=
* FCl is inactive or at rest on an asset.
eFor example, located on electronic media, in system component memory, or in
physical format such as paper documents.
—— Beielacaaia
* FCl is being transferred from one asset to another asset.
¢ For example, data in transit using physical or digital transport methods.
Figure 5-8: In Level 1, any assets that process, store, or transmit FCI are in scope.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 236 ---
224 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Level 2: CUI Assets
CMMC Level 2
CUI Assets process, store, or transmit CUI.
Process CUI can be used by an asset.
eFor example, accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, or printed.
Store CUI is inactive or at rest on an asset.
eFor example, located on electronic media, in system component memory, or in physical format
such as paper documents.
Transmit CUI is being transferred from one asset to another asset.
¢ For example, data in transit using physical or digital transport methods.
Figure 5-9: In Level 2, assets that are in the CMMC Assessment Scope are divided into four
categories. CUI Assets will be assessed against CMMC practices.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 237 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 225
Security Protection Assets
CMMC Level 2
¢ Security Protection Assets provide security functions or capabilities to the OSC.
¢ Consultants who provide ¢ Cloud-based security ° Co-located data centers.
cybersecurity service. solutions. e Security Operations Centers
e Managed service provider e Hosted Virtual Private (SOCs).
personnel who perform Network (VPN) services. e Contractor office buildings.
system maintenance. e SIEM solutions.
e Enterprise network
administrators.
Figure 5-10: The assets in the Security Protection Assets category will be assessed against all
Level 2 CMMC practices.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 238 ---
226 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
CMMC Level 2
* Contractor Risk Managed Assets are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope.
* Capable of, but not intended to, process, store, or transmit CUI because of the security policy, procedures,
and practices in place.
* Not required to be physically or logically separated from CUI Assets.
* Managed using the contractor’s risk-based information security policy, procedures, and practices and are not
assessed against CMMC practices.
Figure 5-11: The Contractor Risk Managed Assets must be documented in the asset inventory,
the SSP, and the network diagram and will only be assessed against CA.L2-3.12.4.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 239 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 227
Specialized Assets
° Specialized Assets are not part of the CMMC Self-Assessment Scope at Level 1.
° Are not assessed against CMMC Practices.
¢ Specialized Assets are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope for Level 2.
e Must be documented in the SSP and include details of how they are managed.
° Specialized Assets consist of:
e Government Property: All property owned or leased by the government.
e Internet of Things (loT) or Industrial Internet of Things (IloT): Interconnected devices having physical or
virtual representation in the digital world, sensing/actuation capability, and programmability features.
° Operational Technology (OT): Used in manufacturing systems, Industrial Control Systems (ICS), or Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems.
° Restricted Information Systems: Includes systems (and associated IT components comprising the system) that
are configured based entirely on government requirements and are used to support a contract.
¢ Test Equipment: Include hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing of products, system
components, and contract deliverables.
Sources: CMMC Self-Assessment Scope - Level 1, version 2.0
CMMC Assessment Scope - Level 2, version 2.0
Figure 5-12: The Specialized Assets must be documented in the asset inventory, the SSP, and the
network diagram and will only be assessed against CA.L2-3.12.4.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 240 ---
228 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Out-of-Scope Assets
Out-of-Scope Assets: Assets that cannot process, store or transmit FCI or CUI because they are
physically or logically separated from CUI assets or are inherently unable to do so.
Source: CMMC Assessment Scope - Level 2
° Assets can be categorized as Out-of-Scope Assets in both Levels 1 and 2.
° Not part of the CMMC Assessment engagement.
° Not evaluated against CMMC practices.
° Do not have documentation requirements.
° Do not provide security protections to FCI or CUI assets.
Figure 5-13: Assets that cannot process, store, or transmit FCI or CUI are out-of-scope for Levels
1 and 2, respectively.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 241 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 229
Level 2 Assets: Contractor Requirements
Asset Category Contractor Requirements
CUI Assets pecutity Protection ssets
* Document in the asset (or system) inventory.
* Document in the System Security Plan (SSP).
° Document in the network diagram included in the CMMC Assessment Scope.
° Prepare to be assessed against Level 2 CMMC practices.
Contractor Risk Managed Assets Specialized Assets ° Document in the asset (or system) inventory.
¢ Document in the SSP.
° Show how these assets are managed using the contractor’s risk-based
security policies, procedures, and practices.
¢ Document in the network diagram included in the CMMC Assessment Scope.
°* Prepare to be assessed against CA.L2-3.12.4.
Figure 5-14: At Level 2, the contractor requirements for the four asset categories are basically
the same with the exception of the CMMC practices that they are assessed against.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 242 ---
230 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-1
Using the CMMC Scoping Guidance
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\Scope_Levell_ V2.0 FINAL 20211202 508.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\Scope_Level2_V2.0 FINAL 20211202 508.pdf
Scenario
Company A is a Department of Defense contractor providing secure payment card processing
devices to the U.S. Government. The devices are manufactured within their facility and incorporate
biometric scanning as a primary mechanism for authentication. These devices store, process, and
transmit transaction data which is retained within Company A’s cloud-based environment for a
period of 5 years. The cloud-based environment is hosted within the AWS GovCloud (US), a U.S.
Government secure cloud solution that complies with the FedRAMP High baseline. Use this
scenario to answer the questions in steps 2, 3, and 4.
1. Open the Level 1 and Level 2 CMMC Scoping Guidance documentation.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named
Scope_Level1_V2.0_FINAL_20211202_508.pdf.
b) From the same CMMC Resources folder, open Scope_Level2_V2.0_FINAL_20211202_508.pdf
2. Using the Level 1 and Level 2 CMMC Scoping Guide, answer the following:
Based on the scenario above, which Scoping Guidance document (Level 1 or
Level 2) would be applicable?
3. Which CMMC Asset Categories would likely apply?
4. Would the cloud-based environment be considered in/out of scope? Why?
5. What assets are in scope for a Level 1 self-assessment?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 243 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 231
6. Based on the broad definition of FCI Assets, which of the following statements
best describes the self-assessment scope?
O
O
O
O
The self-assessment scope must include everything in the OSC's environment.
The self-assessment scope must include all government property.
The self-assessment scope will probably include everything in the OSC's environment.
The self-assessment scope will include only Specialized Assets.
7. Describe the four types of assets and provide examples of each.
8. Comparing the two scoping documents, what are some differences between
the self-assessment scope and the Level 2 Assessment Scope?
9. Similar to FCI Assets, CUI Assets are defined as assets that process, store,
or transmit CUI. What are the additional requirements that an OSC must
satisfy when dealing with CUI Assets?
10.Which Level 2 assets are assessed against CMMC practice CA.L2-3.12.4?
(Choose two.)
L
L
L
L
Security Protection Assets
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
CUI Assets
Specialized Assets
11.Which Level 2 assets are assessed against all applicable CMMC practices?
(Choose two.)
LJ
L]
L
L
CUI Assets
Security Protection Assets
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
Specialized Assets
12.Close all open files.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic A
--- PAGE 244 ---
232 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC B
Get Oriented to the OSC Environment
A critical step in identifying what information needs to be protected is establishing where that
information might be present. While ultimately you will focus on those parts of the Organization
Seeking Certification (OSC) environment that will contain sensitive information, you need to begin
with a good general understanding of the environment itself.
Who Defines Scope
¢ The process of determining what is in scope:
° Is a negotiation involving: >
° The systems that will be used to handle (create, process, store, etc.) the @
sensitive information.
° The OSC’s initial determination of scope.
¢ The Lead Assessor’s evaluation of the scope.
° Some OSCs may want to hire a contractor to help them:
° Determine what their scope should be.
¢ |dentify strategic ways to limit scope that will help to reduce costs and reduce
the overall attack surface.
¢ Properly prepare portions of the environment deemed to be in scope to meet
CMMC Level requirements.
Figure 5-15: Several factors work together to determine what is in scope for a CMMC
Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 245 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 233
Scope Negotiation for Level 2 Assessments
° Before the Assessment:
° The OSC identifies what they think should be in scope.
° They might work with a consultant to make this determination.
° During the Assessment process:
° The Lead Assessor may identify other systems they feel should be in scope.
* The Lead Assessor, C3PAO and OSC Assessment Official may negotiate whether other systems are in scope.
e Example:
° Asimple network with five computers:
° One workstation each for Brian, Laurie, and Tamara.
° Two servers: one for e-mail/file server and another that runs the accounting software.
° Before Assessment, OSC decides the accounting software is not within scope as it does not contain FCI/CUI.
° During Assessment (either the CA-RR or the Assessment itself):
° The Lead Assessor realizes the accounting server is not isolated from the other systems
and is, therefore, in scope.
° The Lead Assessor and OSC can try to negotiate:
° Whether the accounting system is in or out of scope.
° The additional cost of the Assessment due to the addition of the new system.
° Other factors in the relationship.
Figure 5-16: Scope is negotiated between the OSC and the Lead Assessor.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 246 ---
234 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Follow the Information
° Use a strategy of “following the information” to determine scope.
* Identify where sensitive information resides within the OSC environment.
¢ Determine what types of sensitive information they have.
* Identify where the sensitive information moves, to ensure all affected systems are identified.
* To ensure you are thorough in your analysis, you should be familiar with your environment, or the
OSC’s environment.
Figure 5-17: To reliably identify those parts of the OSC environment that should be considered
"in scope," you must follow the information.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 247 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 235
Protection of Sensitive Information throughout Its Lifecycle
Contractor receives
4) sensitive information
upon award.
It is considered sensitive
information in each stage
and must be protected.
Contractor creates additional
2) sensitive information during
the work effort.
Contractor provides the
finished product to the
government as sensitive
information.
Figure 5-18: Sensitive information must be protected throughout its entire lifecycle, from the
start of a contract, during production, and all the way to the finished product.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 248 ---
236 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
1@ Rationale for Scoping
Facilities
N
N People $ | Technology
Facilities ~
The formal CMMC Assessment will focus on the
OSC’s protection of these “in scope” resources.
¢ Determines the assets (people, facilities, and technology) to be evaluated for conformity.
¢ Defines resources and work needed by OSC to bring environment into compliance.
° Defines resources/work needed by Lead Assessor to complete the formal Assessment.
Figure 5-19: At its core, scoping determines the assets (people, facilities, and technology) to be
included within the CMMC Certification and Assessment boundaries.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 249 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 237
Scoping: Information-Centric Methodology
The scoping methodology focuses on information.
FCI / CUI
Sensitive
Information
BR WN BR
. Identify information declared as sensitive information.
. Identify the business processes that use that information.
. Identify systems that directly support those processes.
. Identify enabling systems.
Business
Process 1
Business
Process 2
Which is
supported by System 1 System 2 System 1
Which are
enabled by System 3 System 4 System 4
Figure 5-20: Scoping should follow an information-centric methodology, starting at the top and
working down.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 250 ---
238 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Process to Establish and Determine Scope
siititttttn 2211p ed
¢ Establishing the Scope
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
. Generated by OSC?
. Accessible to or shared with others?
. Who in OSC has access to it?
. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems in
scope can be evaluated against the targeted CMMC
Level.
Figure 5-21: Steps to determine what would be considered "in scope" for a CMMC Assessment at
a particular level.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 251 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 239
System Inventory
rs
a oo Si
d Establishing the Scope e)
Before you begin, inventory all the systems. )
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information
moves.
1.Received from the government?
2.Generated by OSC?
3.Accessible to or shared with others?
4.Who in OSC has access to it?
5.Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems
in scope.
Once scope has been established, the
systems in scope can be evaluated against
the targeted CMMC Level.
System: A discrete set of information resources
organized for the collection, processing, maintenance,
use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of
information.
Source: CMMC Appendices, ver. 1.02
° Identify the systems in the OSC’s environment.
e Ensures you won't miss systems that might handle
sensitive information.
INVENTORY
Rudison’s Systems
Collaboration/E-mail
Development Environment
HR
Accounting
Website
‘APH AHEAE AHAB
Figure 5-22: Before you can begin, you must first have a complete inventory of what systems are
actually in the OSC environment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 252 ---
240 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Tools for Taking Inventory
When gathering information to prepare for scoping:
° Use tools to keep that information organized.
° Examples include spreadsheet, database, or word processing programs.
* Set up a database or document format in advance (a template) to make data entry fast and easy.
* Diagrams can help to document networks, system workflows, or building layouts.
* Use tools you can easily carry to the customer site such as a notebook computer, tablet, or paper.
Figure 5-23: Pull together a set of tools you can use to take inventory of OSC systems and
sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 253 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 241
Example Scenario: Rudison Technologies
* 3-person software development company
* No central office
¢ All work done from remote locations
¢ Nocurrent government contracts
* Wants to prepare their organization to be
able to respond to government projects that
include CMMC requirements
Figure 5-24: An example scenario involving a small software development company seeking
CMMC Certification at Level 1.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 254 ---
242 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Systems Used by Rudison
Cloud-Based Working Environment
~
Office 365 * Email
¢ Authentication (Azure AD)
* General file sharing
sso
AWS ¢ Compute resources
¢ Source code repository
¢ Single sign-on with Office 365
¢ Accessed via RDP
Gusto.com ¢ Human resources
¢ Payroll
End-User Devices
Data t
| QuickBooks | * Accounting
* Windows 10 Pro on employee laptops
¢ Accounts managed using Azure AD
WordPress ¢ Marketing
Site ¢ Lead generation
Ne
How do we prepare this company for a CMMC Level 1 Assessment?
Figure 5-25: Rudison relies heavily on cloud-based systems.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 255 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 243
Rudison Roles and Responsibilities
Rudison Technologies
¢ Jen
* Is the lead developer.
* Writes most of the documentation and proposals.
* Will be the government’s primary point of contact.
* Chris
* Isa developer.
* Handles the day-to-day accounting.
¢ Mark
* Is a developer.
* Is also responsible for maintaining the systems.
* Each employee
* Has a dedicated virtual desktop in AWS for their development work.
* Accesses the AWS environment using their end-user devices.
Figure 5-26: The roles and responsibilities of the Rudison staff.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 256 ---
244 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Preparation for Scoping
"—
. Catalog the sensitive information.
. Determine how sensitive information
moves.
1.Received from the government?
2.Generated by OSC?
3.Accessible to or shared with others?
4.Who in OSC has access to it?
5.Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3.
Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the
systems in scope can be evaluated against
the targeted CMMC Level.
What you know about Rudison:
° You have a general understanding of the Rudison organization.
e You know they want help on a CMMC Level 1 self-assessment.
You are almost ready to begin scoping.
You will do a better job “following the information” if you
have at least a basic awareness of the systems that exist in
their environment and how Rudison uses them.
The CMMC Glossary describes an information system as:
e “a discrete set of information resources organized for the
collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing,
dissemination, or disposition of information.”
To prepare for scoping, you will examine an inventory of
Rudison systems that may be involved in the handling of
sensitive information.
Figure 5-27: Before you start trying to establish the scope, familiarize yourself with OSC's
environment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 257 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 245
ACTIVITY 5-2
Taking Inventory of the OSC Environment
Data File
Information.xlsx
C:\093200Data\Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries\Rudison Systems and
Scenario
In this activity, you are playing the role of a CCP who is helping Rudison Technologies prepare for a
CMMC Level | self-assessment. You have already identified that Rudison's systems include:
¢ Collaboration/E-mail
¢ Development Environment
¢ HR
¢ Accounting
¢ Website
Before you start "following the information" to identify what parts of Rudison's environment will be
considered in scope, you want to get a better understanding of Rudison's systems and how Rudison
employees operate within those systems. To that end, your colleague Dave Farragut has interviewed
Rudison staff to pull together an inventory of Rudison's systems and sensitive information
contained within those systems. This information has been provided to you in an Excel workbook.
ra Note: An empty copy of the workbook, named System and Information Inventory
A Template.xlIsx, is also provided in the course data files, in case you'd like to use this tool in your
~ own inventory tasks.
1. Open the System and Information Inventory Tool, which has already been
filled out with an inventory of Rudison systems and information.
a) In your course data files at C:\093200Data\Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries, open
the Excel workbook file named Rudison Systems and Information.xisx.
This worksheet contains two worksheet tabs, Systems and Information.
2. Examine the general information about the company and the inventory
process.
a) In the Systems worksheet, examine the general information in row 1.
* Cell C1 contains the name of the OSC.
¢ Cell F1 contains the date the inventory was taken.
¢ Cell H1 contains the name of the person who recorded the inventory.
Since you may work with multiple organizations and systems may change over time, it is helpful to
record this information.
3. Consider the details regarding Rudison's HR System.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 258 ---
246 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
a) Examine the information in row 3 about Rudison's HR System.
B
(C D
Rudison Technologies
E
G
ied By
H
Organization Name:
|Inventory Date
3/14/202
Dave Farragut
System Name/
ible to | Physical Description the Public?
)/ | Virtual Machine(s)/
Cloud Service Provider Capabiliti Subnet/VLAN
Responsible Technical
Point of Contact(s) System Owner(s)
HR System
Yes
Gusto N/A Gusto Gusto Gusto
Amazon VPC
Yes AWS
AWS VPC
US-East-1
AWS VPC Mark, Amazon
Jen
Rudison uses Gusto as their HR System. The person who took this inventory has recorded various
details about the HR System in cells B3 through H3.
4. According to the inventory, is the Gusto HR System accessible to the public?
O Yes
O No
5. In cell E3, why do you suppose Dave Farragut wrote "N/A" regarding Gusto's
virtual machine capabilities and simply "Gusto" regarding the Datacenter,
Subnet/VLAN, and Responsible Technical Point of Contact?
6. In regard to the question in column I, the system owner is the individual or
role within the organization that asked for the system to be stood up and is
also typically the primary user of the system. Who should you list as the
System Owner for the HR System?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 259 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 247
Categories of Cloud Services
Cloud Clients
* Web Browsers
* Desktop Apps
* Mobile Apps
* Thin Clients
* Terminal Emulators
* Email
* CRM
Software as a Service SaaS : @Bh * Office Applications
* Communication
* Collaboration
ee, Sl \ ¢ Execution Runtime
PaaS / C4 mo * Database
: — ———al\ & ¢ Web Server
Platform as a Service <— * Development Tools
laaS
Infrastructure as a Service
[s] as— ¢ Virtual Machines
¢ Servers
* Cloud Storage
¢ Load Balancers
¢ Virtual LANs
Figure 5-28: The different categories of cloud services include SaaS, PaaS, and laaS.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 260 ---
248 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Separation of Responsibilities with Cloud Services
On-Premise laaS PaaS SaaS
Infrastructure as a Service Platform as a Service Software as a Service Responsibility
User Access User Access User Access User Access
Data Data Data Data
Applications Applications Applications LA Applications
Operating System Operating System perating Syste Operating System
Networking Networking Networking Networking
Hypervisors Hypervisors Hypervisors Hypervisors
Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure
Customer (the OSC)
Cloud Provider
Physical KL Physical Physical Physical |\_ A
— —
* Do NOT overstate inheritance.
e Properly align the function in question to where it sits on the Shared Service Responsibility Model
Figure 5-29: The extent to which the OSC has the access and responsibility for configuring
cybersecurity controls varies depending on the type of cloud services they use.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 261 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 249
Shared Responsibility Matrix
Shared Responsibility Matrix: A mechanism that Identifies the person(s) or team(s) in the OSC or
the ESP responsible for the implementation and sustainment of the technical controls, as reflected
in the terms of service between the ESP as provider and the OSC as customer.
° Determines relationships between in-scope controls and responsible parties.
Clarifies what questions should be asked of their external service provider.
* Which entity is responsible for the implementation, configuration, and maintenance of the control?
* Are the flow down requirements explicitly defined?
* Do the terms and conditions of the provider’s contract specifically and accurately reflect expectations?
* Validates assumptions regarding performance of in-scope controls between the OSC and the ESP.
Captures risks and remediates any risks resulting from this shared responsibility.
* Determines/validates correct configuration of these services to support compliance.
Figure 5-30: A shared responsibility matrix identifies who is responsible for each Assessment
Objective—the OSC or the ESP.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 262 ---
250 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Sample Shared Responsibility Matrix for IA.L1-3.5.2
IA.L1-3.5.3 - Authenticate (or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices, as a
prerequisite to allowing access to organizational information systems.
Assessment Objective GovCloud High Network
Systems or
Administrator
[a] The identity of each user is authenticated R A C. |
or verified as a prerequisite to system access. ,
[b] The identity of each process acting on A R C, |
behalf of a user is authenticated or verified as
a prerequisite to system access
[c] The identity of each device accessing or A R C, I
connecting to the system is authenticated or
verified as a prerequisite to system access.
Figure 5-31: One way to document a shared responsibility matrix is to use a RACI chart.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 263 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 251
Cloud Services Scope
° Does the cloud provider’s environment contain FCI or CUI?
¢ Yes - Then it is in scope for the Assessment.
¢ No - Then it is out of scope for the Assessment.
° With cloud services, the OSC may have little access or control of cybersecurity configuration.
° If the OSC uses a cloud service to handle FCI/CUI and that cloud service is not properly secured, it
will prevent the OSC from obtaining a CMMC Certification.
° Therefore, it is necessary to establish compliance for any cloud services deemed to be in scope.
° The cloud provider may hold CMMC or other certifications the OSC can, at least partially, "inherit"
when using the provider.
Figure 5-32: Just because assets are maintained in the cloud doesn't mean the OSC is not
responsible for compliance. You must work with the cloud provider to provide observable
evidence or establish that you can "inherit" security controls the cloud provider has implemented.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 264 ---
252 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Inheritance
* Cloud service providers:
° Typically implement underlying security controls.
* Can provide observable evidence to prove such controls are implemented.
* OSCs that provision applications, virtual machines, and other systems through service providers:
* Under some circumstances, can inherit security controls implemented by service providers for their own
CMMC Assessment.
* Can thereby avoid some of the time and effort needed to implement and document those controls.
Security Control Inheritance: A situation in which an information system or application receives
protection from security controls (or portions of security controls) that are developed, implemented,
assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or
application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application
resides.
Source: Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations (NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4)
Figure 5-33: To establish compliance, the OSC may be able to inherit security controls
implemented by the service provider.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 265 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 253
Cloud Service Scoping Considerations
* The Lead Assessor and the Assessment Team Members must consider the role and interaction of
these platforms/services in the OSCs environment, to determine:
* Shared responsibility in terms of implementation and sustainment of the in -scope controls.
* Ability to leverage ‘inherited’ controls where inheritance aligns with the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP).
e Whether there may be impact to:
° The OSC's existing technical and/or administrative controls.
* The OSC's responsibilities with respect to configuration of these technologies and/or services.
° Any potential impacts to the OSC's risk posture.
* Where a control implemented via a service agreement may be insufficient or introduce secondary
vulnerabilities.
Figure 5-34: There are benefits to using cloud services, but assets contained within the cloud
must be considered in the process of determining what is in scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 266 ---
254 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-3
Taking Inventory of laaS Assets
Before You Begin
You have already opened Rudison Systems and Information.xlsx in Excel.
Scenario
The inventory of Rudison's cloud-based HR System was fairly straightforward. Now, you will
examine an inventory of Rudison's cloud-based Amazon Web Services (AWS) development
environment that Rudison uses to develop software. You've obtained a sketch (shown in the
following figure) of the components that comprise Rudison’s development environment. In this
activity, you will review the various components in this cloud-based system as they have been
recorded in your inventory workbook.
Rudison Technologies
The Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud-based development
environment that Rudison uses to develop software
AWS VPC
EC2
AWS Elastic
Block Store
(EBS)
Windows Server 2020 Github w/Azure AD
Windows Server 2020
Jenkins
Windows 10 Pro Windows 10 Pro
VS 2019 VS 2019
Windows 10 Pro
VS 2019
AWS
Simple
Storage
Service (S3)
AWS
Relational
Database
Service (RDS)
Figure 5-35: Rudison's cloud-based development tools are hosted on Amazon Web Services.
1. Examine the inventory of Rudison's development environment.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 267 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 255
a) Return to the workbook you have already opened in Excel, and examine the information recorded in
row 4.
B Cc D E F G H
1 lo ization Name: Rudison Technologies |Inventory Date 3/14/2022|Inventoried By Dave Farragut
System Name/ Accessible to | Physical Machine(s)/ | Virtual Machine(s)/ Responsible Technical
2 Description the Public? | Cloud Service Provider Capabiliti Data [Office Subnet/VLAN Point of Contact(s) System Owner(s)
3 HR System Yes Gusto N/A Gusto Gusto Gusto
4 Amazon VPC Yes AWS AWS VPC US-East-1 AWS VPC Mark, Amazon Jen
5 Win2020DC Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
6 Win2020Jenk Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
7 Development Win10Mark Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
8 . No AWS Wini0Jen Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
9 Environment Win10Chris Amazon VPC Dev.-10.0.0.1/24 __ [Mark Jen
10 EBS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
11 RDS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
12 $3 Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
13 |Collaboration/E-mail |Yes Office 365 N/A Microsoft E3 Microsoft Microsoft Mark
14 Accounting Yes Quickbooks N/A Intuit Intuit Intuit Chris
* Cells B4 through I4 contain information about the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Virtual Private
Cloud (VPC) that Rudison set up to provide network communications among the various virtual
machines that they use to develop software.
* This service provides the network environment for Rudison's cloud-based development tools.
¢ All of the virtual machines (VMs) and services Rudison is using for development are on the same
Subnet/VLAN (called Dev) at 10.0.0.1/24.
¢ This "virtual LAN" is located on actual network hardware. You can see from the information Dave
recorded in cell F4 that it is located in one of Amazon's datacenters within the Eastern United
States.
* Cell H4 shows that Mark, as Rudison's systems administrator, is a technical point of contact for
the network. Mark used remote administration tools provided by AWS to set up and configure the
network, and he is the person at Rudison primarily responsible for maintaining it. Amazon is also
noted as a technical point of contact since they own the systems the service is hosted on. There
are some administration tasks Amazon staff can perform that Mark cannot.
¢ Jen, who set up the AWS account and makes sure the bill gets paid, is noted as the system
owner in cell 14.
b) In cells B5 through 112, examine the information recorded about Rudison's Development
Environment.
* Cells B5, C5, and D5 have been formatted to span rows 5 through 12, since they apply to all
eight of these rows.
* Cell B5 indicates that rows 5 through 12 contain information about virtual machines and cloud
services that are part of Rudison's "Development Environment".
* Cell C5 indicates that the entire Development Environment is not accessible to the general
public. Rudison employees must log in to AWS to gain access to it.
¢ Cell D5 indicates that the entire Development Environment is hosted on AWS.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 268 ---
256 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
c) In rows 5 through 9, examine the information provided about the virtual machines in Rudison's
Development Environment.
B Cc D E F G H |
1 | Organization Name: Rudison Technologies |Inventory Date 3/14/2022] inventoried By Dave Farragut
System Name/ Accessible to | Physical Machine(s)/ | Virtual Machine(s)/ Responsible Technical
2 Description the Public? | Cloud Service Provider Capabiliti Di [Office Subnet/VLAN Point of Contact(s) System Owner(s)
5 Win2020DC Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
6 Win2020Jenk Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
7 Win10Mark Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
8 Development INNo AWS Win10Jen ‘Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 __|Mark Jen
9 Environment Win10Chris Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 [Mark Jen
10 EBS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
11 RDS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
12 $3 Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
13 |Collaboration/E-mail |Yes Office 365 N/A Microsoft E3 Microsoft Microsoft Mark
14 | Accounting Yes Quickbooks N/A Intuit Intuit Intuit Chris
* Rudison has used Amazon's Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) service to set up five virtual
machines in the cloud-based development environment.
* Win2020DC — Windows Server 2020 with Azure Active Directory and GitHub. This VM
provides authentication for Rudison's cloud-based development environment, as well as the
repository that holds software code the team develops.
¢ Win2020Jenk — Windows Server 2020 running Jenkins. This VM provides automation tools
the development team uses to develop software, including building, testing, and deployment.
¢ Win10Mark, Win10Jen, and Win10Chris — Windows 10 Pro with Visual Studio 2019. These
three VM instances contain software that Mark, Jen, and Chris will use to write and edit code.
All of these virtual machines are located on the same virtual LAN hosted in Amazon VPC.
d) In rows 10 through 12, examine the information provided about various other services running in
Rudison's Development Environment.
B Cc D E F G H |
1 lo ‘ion Name: Rudison Technologi y Date 3/14/2022|Inventoried By Dave Farragut
System Name/ Accessible to | Physical Machine(s)/ | Virtual Machine(s)/ Responsible Technical
2 Description the Public? | Cloud Service Provider Capabilities Datacenter/Office Subnet/VLAN Point of Contact(s) System Owner(s)
5) Win2020DC Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
6 Win2020Jenk Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
7 Win10Mark Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
Development "
8 . No AWS Win10Jen Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
9 Environment Win10Chris ‘Amazon VPC Dev.-10.0.0.1/24 [Mark Jen
10 EBS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
11 RDS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
12 $3 Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
13 Collaboration/E-mail |Yes Office 365 N/A Microsoft E3 Microsoft Microsoft Mark
14 | Accounting Yes Quickbooks N/A Intuit Intuit Intuit Chris
* AWS Elastic Block Store (EBS) — This service is used to store the software development project
files managed in GitHub.
¢ AWS Relational Database Service (RDS) — This service is used to store data used in the
applications that Rudison is developing for the government.
¢ AWS Simple Storage Service (S3) — This service is used to archive backups of source code and
related project files.
These services are located on the same virtual LAN along with the virtual machines.
2. Examine the inventory of other cloud services used by Rudison.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 269 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 257
a) In rows 13 through 15, examine the information provided about other cloud services Rudison uses.
B Cc D E F G H |
1 \¢ ization Name: Rudison Technologies | Inver y Date 3/14/2022] Inventoried By Dave Farragut
System Name/ Accessible to | Physical Machine(s)/ | Virtual Machine(s)/ Responsible Technical
2 scription the Public? | Cloud Service Provider Capabiliti D [Office Subnet/VLAN Point of C (s) System Owner(s)
3 |HR System Yes Gusto N/A Gusto Gusto Gusto
4 Amazon VPC Yes AWS AWS VPC US-East-1 AWS VPC Mark, Amazon Jen
5 Win2020DC Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
6 Win2020Jenk Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
7 Win10Mark Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
8 Development lu, AWS Win10Jen ‘Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
9 Environment Win10Chris Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 [Mark Jen
10 EBS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
11 RDS Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
12 $3 Amazon VPC Dev. - 10.0.0.1/24 Mark Jen
13 |Collaboration/E-mail [Yes Office 365 N/A Microsoft E3 Microsoft Microsoft Mark
14 | Accounting Yes Quickbooks N/A Intuit Intuit Intuit Chris
15 |Website Yes Wordpress N/A Wordpress.com Wordpress.com Mark Jen
16 No MarkPC N/A Mark's Home 192.168.1.1/24 Mark Mark
¢ Rudison also uses:
¢ Office 365 for collaboration and email.
¢ QuickBooks for accounting.
¢ WordPress for their website.
These services are provided as Software as a Service (SaaS), much like the Gusto HR service you
considered earlier.
3. When it comes to scoping, how is the development environment significantly
different from Gusto, Office 365, and QuickBooks?
4. The datacenter is physically located in the U.S. Is this relevant to the security
of government-owned information?
5. AWS and Office 365 are both cloud-based external service providers that are
in scope because they process, store, or transmit FCI. What does that mean
for Rudison as they move forward in their level 1 self-assessment?
6. Leave the file open and minimize the Excel application window.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic B
--- PAGE 270 ---
258 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC C
Determine How Sensitive Information Moves
You have familiarized yourself with the OSC environment and have identified where sensitive
information exists within that environment. But information does not always remain in one place.
Before you can determine what parts of the environment are in scope for the CMMC Assessment,
you must determine where the sensitive information moves, which might bring other parts of the
OSC environment into play.
Catalog the Sensitive Information
° The first step is to catalog the sensitive information.
Before you begin, inventory all the systems. we we . .
(i Catalog the sensitive information. ) ° Identify instances of sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves. ¢ Determine the type of sensitive information.
1. Received from the government? . : : . P
2. Generated by OSC? ° Identify which systems contain the information.
e For new environments, you start by asking:
3. Accessible to or shared with others? 4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the ° What types of sensitive information does the OSC expect to handle?
jovernment? = - 9 9 - 9 ong
- ¢ What systems are likely to be involved in handling the sensitive
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in . .
scope. information?
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
Figure 5-36: Start the scoping process by identifying and categorizing the types of sensitive
information that exist within the OSC environment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 271 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 259
Catalog the Sensitive Information (Rudison Example)
TM~
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
(4. Catalog the sensitive information. )
2. Determine how sensitive information
moves.
1.Received from the government?
2.Generated by OSC?
3.Accessible to or shared with others?
4.Who in OSC has access to it?
5.Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the
systems in scope can be evaluated against
the targeted CMMC Level.
e Is new to government contracting.
Currently has no FCI or CUI.
° Is bidding on development of new
software for the government.
¢ Will develop using their own resources
(no government-owned or furnished equipment).
¢ Will not handle CUI, as contract specifically
requires only Level 1 Certification.
Figure 5-37: Start to identify where FCI might be located within the Rudison environment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 272 ---
260 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Where FCI May Be Involved (Rudison Example)
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
(1. Catalog the sensitive information.)
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMC Level.
Where this company and contract might have FCI:
The RFP. Depending on the nature of the information in the
RFP, it may be FCI, so we'll add that to the list.
Software development. As we discussed on the previous slide,
software created or developed for the government will likely
be FCI, so we'll add the source code to the list.
Project documentation or other reports. That information will
likely be nonpublic and is being created for the government, so
it will also be FCI and should be added to the list.
Email communications. Email frequently includes nonpublic
information.
Elsewhere. This list is a start. Continue to brainstorm to
identify other possibilities.
Figure 5-38: Examples of places you might look for FCI in this company and contract.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 273 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 261
Determ’ ‘ow Sensitive Information Moves
° Sensitive information:
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information. 2. Determine how sensitive information moves, 2 Generated by OSC? * Must be protected wherever it exists.
* May be moved across systems as part of normal work processes.
* Must be protected on other systems it is moved to.
3. Accessible to or shared with others? 4. Who in OSC has access to it? 5. Will sensitive information be sent to the government? moves
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
° To be able to adequately identify where protections must
oye : :
be placed, you must understand how sensitive information
]
/
—&
&
Figure 5-39: The second major step in Assessment preparation is determining how FCI will move.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 274 ---
262 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Determine How Sensitive Information Moves (RFP Example)
fs
a a
(9) Establishing the Scope [ie]
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
. Determine how sensitive information moves.
. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
access
privileges
e Requests for Proposals (RFPs) are one example of
information that might move between the government
and the contractor.
Some information within an RFP:
May not be public.
May require contractors to have certain access privileges before
accessing parts of the RFP.
Examples: Credentials for a particular government tool.
Enables the government to include nonpublic information,
including FCI and CUI, in the RFP.
(Future) May contain sections accessible only by organizations
with CMMC Certification.
Figure 5-40: RFPs are a typical example of FCI that moves between the government and the
contractor.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 275 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 263
Prevent Sensitive Information from Moving to Reduce Risk
——
itt hd
d Establishing the Scope e)
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
C. Received from the government? )
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
Lor Contractor Systems
Xv allowed here
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope. ° As an alternative to moving information, the government
Once scope has been established, the systems .
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted may:
CMMC Level. . .
eve * Keep some information in government systems only.
° Require logging into the government system to view the
information.
° Prevent contractor from copying information to their own
environment.
° This arrangement:
° Keeps data within the government’s environment.
° Reduces the government’s risk.
Figure 5-41: To reduce risk, the government may prefer to prevent some FCI from moving.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 276 ---
264 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
FCI Received from the Government? (Rudison Example)
_——~
[oceans
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in OSC has access to it? 5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
Government Systems CI fF Rudison Systems
)
Software Requirements _ Software Requirements
The software requirements specification:
° Will be provided by the government.
¢ Will likely include nonpublic information, making it FCI.
° Is likely to enter the Rudison environment at some point.
Figure 5-42: Rudison's RFP is probably not FCI, but the software requirements and email
communications for the project probably are FCI.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 277 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 265
FCI Generated by the OSC?
e Many contracts involve the creation of information on
behalf of the government.
Before you begin, inventory all the systems. 1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves. 1. Received from the government? ° Examples:
e Reports or analyses
( 2. Generated by OSC? )
3. Accessible to or shared with others? * Designs or specifications
4. Who in OSC has access to it? e Software
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the .
government? ¢ Illustrations
3._dentiiy-systems.and enabling systems In scope.
* Much of this will be considered FCI by the government.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMNC Level.
Figure 5-43: You need to account for FCI that will be produced by the OSC.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 278 ---
266 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
FCI Generated by the OSC? (Rudison Example)
i —~
1) Establishing the Scope J@
_ SY SY
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government? In Rudison’s example:
(2 Generated by OSC ») 2? . : .
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
* The company is bidding on a software development contract.
4. Who in OSC has access to it? * The software they develop for the government will likely be
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the government?
proprietary (i.e., not public). Therefore, it will likely be FCI.
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMNC Level. Custom Software
proprietary
Non-Public
(FCI)
Figure 5-44: Rudison will be producing software that will likely be considered FCI.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 279 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 267
FCI Accessible to or Shared with Others?
Jaa
fo) Establishing the Scope e)
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
G. Accessible to or shared with others? )
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMNC Level.
e Many organizations outsource some of their infrastructure
or operations.
¢ Examples include:
e Managed Service Providers (MSP)
° Managed Security Service Providers (MSSP)
* Cloud service providers
° Subcontractors
Figure 5-45: An OSC may share FCI with other organizations in order to outsource portions of
their efforts.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 280 ---
268 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ssible to or Shared with Others? (Rudison Example)
Ss
Rudison Technologies 1_—TM
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
(3. Accessible to or shared with others? )
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government? . .
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in Cloud-based working environment
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems in scope can be evaluated against the targeted CMMC Level. . a
. Authentication (Azure AD)
Office 365 * Email
* General file sharing
sso 4
* Compute resources
AWS ° Source code repository
* Single sign-on with Office 365
* Accessed via RDP
¢« Human resources
* Payroll
Data ¢
QuickBooks | + Accounting
WordPress * Marketing
Site * Lead generation
Figure 5-46: To keep this example simple for now, assume that Rudison will not use
subcontractors, and FCI will not be shared with other organizations.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 281 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 269
Who Has Access to the FCI?
* Do all employees, or only a subset of employees, have
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
access to the FCI?
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive Information moves. 1. Received from the government? ?
2. Generated by OSC? access:
: F >
3. Accessible to or shared with others? e If SO, why?
* Do all employees who are granted access to the FCI need
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
¢ If not, why do they have access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMNC Level.
Figure 5-47: In order to evaluate whether proper security controls are in place later on, you need
to determine who is supposed to have access to the FCI.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 282 ---
270 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Who Has Access to the FCI? (Rudison Example)
.TM
©) Establishing the Scope f@
TET
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
( 4. Who in OSC has access to it?)
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
¢ 3 Employees
° All employees:
¢ Are developers,
¢ Will work on the project, and
e Need access to source code.
° Only Chris has access to QuickBooks.
Software
Developer oem seen nen
Jen Vv 4 v
Chris Vv 0 v
Mark v 4 v
Figure 5-48: Different types of FCI that Rudison has and which employees can access it.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 283 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 271
Will FCI Be Sent to the Government?
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1.
2.
3.
Catalog the sensitive information.
Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in h it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMNC Level.
° Given FCI’s broad definition, much of the information sent
to the government under a contract is likely to be FCI.
¢ |t is important to understand that there are scenarios
where the FCI may be created in and never leave a
contractor’s environment, such as where contractor
equipment is needed to access the FCI.
Figure 5-49: It is important to be thorough in identifying where FCI is created or received, so you
don't miss critical FCI.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 284 ---
272 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
vin FCI Be Sent to the Government? (Rudison Example)
Rudison Technologies
y=
Before you begin, inventory all the systems. 1. Catalog the sensitive information. Rudison will:
2. Determine how sensitive information moves. d to the government any
1. Received from the government? Sen ecutable code,
2. Generated by OSC? source code, es files they
3. Accessible to or shared with others? and other project ne
Whe it create.
5. a information be sent to the - Usea shared OneDrive fold
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMWNC Level.
send the files.
Figure 5-50: Rudison will use OneDrive to send finished project files to the government.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 285 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 273
How FCI Moves (Rudison Example)
©) Establishing the Scope fj@
PY PETC
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government? Office 365
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others? Email, Email,
4. Who in OSC has access to it? attachments Email attachments
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the government? System
< >
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in
scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems Reports, AWS
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted documentation
CMMC Level. Government File Storage « ~ Development
Customer Ly > Environment
File Sharing <— >
Source code, Source code,
executable files, executable
data files files, data files,
large reports,
and documents
Figure 5-51: A summary of how FCI flows in the Rudison example.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 286 ---
274 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Information Flow Diagram — Example 1
Business
Developer
Proposal
Development
Proposal
Team
v
Develop
Proposal
A
CUI
Supporting
System
|
Receive CUI Store ele
for Proposal CUI p
Team
USB Drive H Laptops H |
MS Teams
In Scope
Systems
|
Supporting
Systems
Figure 5-52: An example of an information flow diagram.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 287 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 275
Information Flow Diagram — Example 2
DFARS NIST CMMC DFARS NIST CMMC DFARS NIST CMMC DFARS NIST CMMC
7012 800-171 L3 7012 800-171 L3 7012 800-171 L3 7012 800-171 L3
ft 4 en: , ft 4 , ft 4
Receive CUI for
RFQ Store CUI Notify Team
AO A3
USB Laptop Safe Laptop Safe Laptop
Drive USB Teams ams Teams
Drive Site Site Site
Key to Reading the Diagram
Cybersecurity Controls
Activity
I
Mechanisms
Figure 5-53: Another example of an information flow diagram.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 288 ---
276 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-4
Examining an Information Inventory
Before You Begin
You have already opened Rudison Systems and Information.xlsx in Excel.
Scenario
In this activity, you will examine details that a CCP might capture regarding sensitive information
that exists within an OSC environment—in this, information handled by the Rudison company.
1. Examine the information inventory documented in the workbook.
a) In Excel, in the Rudison Systems and Information.xlsx workbook you opened previously, select the
Information worksheet tab.
This worksheet contains an inventory of the sensitive information contained in the organization's
systems.
B ic
Organization/Org. Unit Name: Rudison Inventory Date
Information Definition
Details Specific to Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC)
> oercine.ory
Has OSC Indicated a
d CMMC Level
Relevant Contract
CMMC Level for the
Needed to Create/Store
7
ion Type Agency (if CUI)
Information?
the Information
Copyright 2020, CMMC
Information Institute, Inc.
Released under the Creative RFP
N/A
FCI
N/A
No Level1
Commons CC-BY-ND license.
E-mail and N/A FCI N/A No Level1
THIS TOOL IS PROVIDED BY THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
“
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY Source code N/A FCI N/A No Level 1
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT
fe)
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED Source code d FCI N/A No Level1
WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
ire)
ble files
N/A N/A No Level1
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
Data files N/A N/A No Level1
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR
Reports N/A N/A No Level 1
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF
b) Scroll as needed to view columns B through G, and examine the information that has been entered.
Column B — A short description of the information.
Column C — Relevant contract numbers.
Column D — Whether the information type is FCI or CUI and, if CUI:
* Column E —- The agency that designated it as CUI.
¢ Column F — Whether the Designating Agency or the OSC has associated the information with
a CMMC Level.
¢ Column G—- The CMMC Level associated with that CUI or, if the government hasn't provided
one, the Level the OSC thinks is likely to be needed.
In this case, all of the identified information is FCI, not CUI.
2. Observe that the worksheet collects information about the source and flow of
the information.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 289 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 277
a) Scroll to the Information Origination Details section, and examine details regarding the information's
origin.
| J K
Inventoried By
Details
Internally Created
Incoming Information Information
Prime
Government Contractor/Customer | Organizational/ Busine
Agency/Office from which| from which Information Unit Creating
Information was Received was Received Information
Department of Good
Works N/A N/A
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
Department of Good
Works N/A All Users
¢ If externally created:
¢ Column |-— The name of the agency or office from whom the information was originally
received.
¢ Column J-— The Prime contractor, or mid-tier contractor, from whom the information was
received by the OSC.
¢ If internally created:
* Column K - The organizational unit or business unit that created the information.
b) Scroll to view columns L-AG.
These columns include details about how the information is handled within the OSC.
‘t (i Note: Information inventories can be time consuming and complex, and they
also sometimes turn up information that is unexpected. For example, an OSC
may not think that it stores credit card numbers or social security numbers, but
during the course of the information inventory such information may be
identified. The worksheet includes additional fields for tracking attributes of
personally identifiable information, personal healthcare information, etc., that
may be found in the environment. Recording this information when it is found
can help the OSC in the event of a data breach.
3. Close the file and exit Excel.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic C
--- PAGE 290 ---
278 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC D
Identify Systems in Scope
Now that you are familiar with the types of information to be protected, you can turn your focus on
understanding how the boundaries of a CMMC Assessment are defined. In this topic, you will learn
how an assessor will search for the sensitive information and follow how it flows within an OSC to
determine what needs to be evaluated against the CMMC Model requirements during an
Assessment.
Identify Systems in Scope
° To identify what will be in scope, refer to:
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1.
Catalog the sensitive information. ° The list of sensitive information you have cataloged.
2.
Determine how sensitive information moves. ¢ Who has access to it.
1. Received from the government?
¢ How it moves.
2. Generated by OSC?
8. Accessible to or shared with others? ° Validate your analysis by looking at the organization from a
4. Who in OSC has access to it? °
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the systems perspective as well.
government?
(* Identify systems and enabling systems
in scope.
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMC Level.
Figure 5-54: The third major step in Assessment preparation is to use the information you've
gained about the company and the contract to identify the systems that are in scope for
Assessment and Certification.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 291 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 279
Scope Boundaries
Ty CMMC Certification Boundary:
Defines the assets to which an assessor will evaluate conformity with applicable CMMC practices.
This is the boundary to which a CMMC Certificate will be applied.
Assessment Boundary:
Identifies all assets in the contractor’s environment for the Assessment engagement. Assets within
the Assessment Boundary can be part of the CMMC Certification Boundary or Enabling Assets.
Assets that process,
store, or transmit
sensitive
information
ec eee eceeocecocccopeococococece,
Certification Boundary ,
]
]
Contractor ) ESP -
]
]
=== Facilities255
=== Facilities255
]
] \ are, People
]
]
tie Technology
]
= y,
]
eaeeeeeeeeeeeeePoeeeoeoeoeoo &
Sweeeeeeeeeeceeeeeceeceececeeceeeceececoccoce o!”
Enabling assets
Figure 5-55: Definition of the CMMC Certification and Assessment boundaries.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 292 ---
280 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
System Security Plan (SSP)
System Security Plan: The formal document prepared by the information system owner (or
common security controls owner for inherited controls) that provides an overview of the security
requirements for the system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting
those requirements. The plan can also contain as supporting appendices or as references, other
key security-related documents such as a risk assessment, privacy impact assessment, system
interconnection agreements, contingency plan, security configurations, configuration
management plan, and incident response plan.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (CNSSI 4009)
* An SSP helps with scoping by documenting:
° Boundaries.
° Information flows.
° Responsibilities for protecting sensitive information.
* Having an SSP will help to foster agreement:
* Among OSC staff involved in creating and reviewing the SSP.
° Between the OSC and the Lead Assessor.
Figure 5-56: A System Security Plan is a formal document that can streamline the Certification
effort for an OSC and help with scoping.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 293 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 281
Best Practices for Establishing the OSC Scope
° Follow the Information.
* Begin by examining how the OSC receives information during the proposal development phase of
their proposal/performance lifecycle.
* Did the government provide the OSC information not available on SAM.gov?
* Did the government provide data to the OSC immediately after winning the contract?
° Sensitive information must be protected from start to finish.
¢ Build a Data Flow Diagram.
° Even at CMMC Level 1, have a System Security Plan.
Figure 5-57: Some best practices to follow when establishing the OSC scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 294 ---
282 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMNC Scopi
ng
Assessment Boundary
e<e®e®eeereeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeceeecocoece
(
Certification Boundary
Contractor
=== FacilitiesSS:
gig People
a
= Technology
In Scope
=== FacilitiesSS:
sis People
Technology
®eeeeeoeeocoeecooeococoeecoe ?
ee®eeeeereeceeececereeceeececeeeceeececeececoeeoecocececocce
Enabling Assets
Figure 5-58: A generic example of Assessment and Certification boundaries.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
ESP
= =: Facilities
Contractor
= =: Facilities
si People
ee
= Technology
\Y
SJ
--- PAGE 295 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 283
FCI and End-User Devices
On which end-user devices are we likely to find FCI?
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems
in scope.
Desktop/laptops?
° Thunderbird/Outlook files
(e.g., PST or OST files)
e Browser cache
° Locally synchronized files
(e.g., Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive)
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMNC Level.
Mobile devices?
¢ Email OSCs
° Files
Printers and Copiers?
° Internal storage
Removable media?
° Backup media
° Removable media for presentations
Figure 5-59: Be sure to evaluate end-user devices when looking for places where FCI may reside
in the OSC environment.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 296 ---
284 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-5
Identifying Where FCI Is Likely to Be Found
Srer--
ft | ity, you'll walk through each of Rudison's systems to determine where you are likely to
_ ’en your previous analysis.
A LTTE]
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
a End-User Devices & Cloud-based Working Environment
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
Jen PC Office 365
4. Who in OSC has access to it?
¢ Authentication (Azure AD)
Email
(* 5. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
Identify systems and enabling systems )
in scope.
Chris PC <50 r
General file sharing
Mark PC
Compute resources
Source code repository
J
AWS
Single sign-on with Office 365
Once scope has been established, the systems
Accessed via RDP
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMC Level. + Human resources
* Payroll
+4 the Rudison environment ar i (
Where ss at 4 FCI? Data ¢
QuickBooks | * Accounting
s site! .
e The WordPres WordPress | ° Marketing
ein QuickBooks? Site + Lead generation
» In Gusto?
\n the AWS environment?- Where else?
—
Figure 5-60: Where FCI might exist in the Rudison environment.
1. Is FCI likely to be on the WordPress site?
2. What about QuickBooks?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 297 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 285
3. What about Gusto?
4. How about the AWS environment?
5. Will the Office 365 environment contain FCI?
6. Are there any other locations where you might find FCI?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 298 ---
286 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-6
Evaluating FCl and End-User Devices
Scenario
Now you'll take a closer look at the end-user devices used in Rudison. Your analysis of the FCI
showed that Jen, Chris, and Mark all have access to FCI from the computers they use to author and
edit documents and emails. Looking at it from a system/device perspective, you know the users
create and edit documents, such as reports, on those devices and author emails on them as well. So,
those devices will be in the Assessment scope boundary.
Rudison Technologies
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
2. Generated by OSC?
3. Accessible to or shared with others?
4. Who in OSC has access to it? | e La ptop
5. Will sensitive information be sent to the g
government?
Lal * Mobile phone
(: coe ang enabling systems } Jen ) | — e Removable hard drive
e WiFi Router
Once scope has been established, the systems
in scope can be evaluated against the targeted |
CMWMC Level.
pe 1 | ° Laptop
) | Ce e Mobile phone
e WiFi Router
ial ° ij ° Laptop
ia Rs \y = * Mobile phone
e WiFi Router
Figure 5-61: End-user devices used by Rudison employees.
ra Note: For the purposes of this lesson, we will assume that Jen, Chris, and Mark are all single,
A live alone, and that the devices illustrated on this slide are the only devices on their home
~~ | networks.
1. Could these end-user devices potentially be removed from the scope of the
Assessment if the Rudison users worked in a fully VDI (virtual desktop
infrastructure) environment?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 299 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 287
2. Like most people today, the Rudison employees all have mobile phones, and
they access their Rudison emails from those phones. Will these mobile
devices be within scope for Certification and/or Assessment?
3. The Rudison employees all work from home, and their home networks are
very simple. They all use a Wi-Fi router supplied by their Internet providers to
access the Internet and the Rudison shared resources. Are these routers and
home networks in scope?
4. What about the other devices on their home networks, such as smart phones
owned by other family members?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 300 ---
288 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 5-7
Confirming the Systems in Scope
Scenario
Based on your analysis of Rudison's environment, you feel you have a pretty good idea of where
sensitive information will be stored or processed, and you know how it will move. As a result, you
and the staff at Rudison have proposed Assessment and Certification boundaries as shown in the
following figure.
Frat | Assessment Boundary ] <a ~\
( ,-7~[ Certification Boundary ]=----=-=-=-=-==-----------=- ‘ } 11 y
V1 End-User Devices Cloud-Based Working Environment Vy
it Go CS f
V1 1)
Vt * Authentication (Azure AD) 1)
Jen PC
AH Office 365 | + Email i!
; I Chris PC So * General file sharing !
11 1y
} I Mark PC * Compute resources ly
I } AWS : Source code repository } }
It * Single sign-on with Office 365 ly
H I * Accessed via RDP IY
Nu eee ee a ee ee ee ee ee 4)
es a 1 ¢
ew Out of Scope ] eee
' * Human resources
I ¢ Payroll
| Fl Data 4
| . .
I QuickBooks | + Accounting
88
I WordPress « Marketing
; Site + Lead generation
I
I
N
Figure 5-62: To summarize, the end-user devices and networks, Office 365 environment, and the
AWS virtual machines will all be within both the Assessment and Certification boundaries for
Rudison.
Now you and the team will confirm your initial conclusions by discussing the various systems you
deemed to be out of scope, and identifying the rationale for not including those systems within the
scope boundaries.
1. Why is the website out of scope?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 301 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 289
2. Why is QuickBooks out of scope?
3. Why is Gusto out of scope?
4. Gusto and QuickBooks are integrated, enabling them to share data. How
does this affect scope?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic D
--- PAGE 302 ---
290 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC E
Limit Scope
Various methods can be used to limit the range and extent of sensitive information within an
organization, thereby limiting what must be in scope for an Assessment.
Benefits of Limiting Scope
e Limiting scope enables an OSC to reduce:
¢ The effort needed to reach compliance.
e The time needed to reach compliance.
¢ The cost needed to reach compliance. ° The size of the attack surface, potentially
resulting in improved security.
——— Trennapngiesc$l ey!
i; Mapeeeneeeeee
° You can limit scope:
° By keeping sensitive information isolated to a small part of the OSC’s environment.
e Using isolation methods such as:
° Physical Isolation - Providing “real world” barriers, such as walls and locked doors.
° Logical Isolation - Providing electronic barriers, such as firewalls and gateways.
¢ Controlled Access - Restricting users in some circumstances based on configuration or parameters.
° Identify existing scope boundaries by finding where isolation methods are currently used.
e Establish new scope boundaries by using isolation methods where they’re not currently used.
Figure 5-63: There are various good reasons for an OSC to undertake the effort to limit scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 303 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 291
Justification for Limiting Scope
If nonfederal organizations designate specific system components for the processing, storage, or
transmission of CUI, those organizations may limit the scope of the security requirements by
isolating the designated system components in a separate CUI security domain. Isolation can be
achieved by applying architectural and design concepts (e.g., implementing subnetworks with
firewalls or other boundary protection devices and using information flow control mechanisms).
Security domains may employ physical separation, logical separation, or a combination of both.
This approach can provide adequate security for the CUI and avoid increasing the organization’s
security posture to a level beyond that which it requires for protecting its missions, operations,
and assets. Source: NIST SP 800-171 rev 2, para 1.1
° This statement:
° Allows organizations to create “security domains” or “enclaves” where sensitive information may be handled.
° Justifies an organization using separation methods to limit scope.
° By implication, means that where separation methods are not used, the entire network is in scope.
e Example: System A contains CUI/FCI, and is on the same network as System B.
e Therefore, System B is also in scope, regardless of whether it contains CUI.
Y Enclave: A segmentation of an organization's network or data that is intended to "wall off" that
network or database from all other networks or systems. ACMMC Assessment scope can be within the
Assessment scope of an enclave.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 5-64: It is important for the CCP to be able to recognize and understand separation
methods, which can be used to limit scope.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 304 ---
292 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Limit Scope with Suppliers and Subcontractors
Supplier Subcontractor
* Aperson or organization that provides something needed such as a product or service. * Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) suppliers do not need CMMC Certification as stated by the DoD. * Aperson or company hired by the Prime
contractor to perform a specific task as part of an
overall project.
* Might handle FCI or CUI depending on the
* Might handle FCI but will unlikely need to handle CUI. their contract work.
information they receive or create in support of
Limiting Scope for Suppliers and Subcontractors:
OSCs can exclude a supplier from being in-scope by not sending the FCI/CUI to them; and only give them
controlled access to view it.
Figure 5-65: OSCs can exclude suppliers and subcontractors from being in scope by not sending
FCI/CUI to them.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 305 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 293
Scoping: Roles & Responsibilities of the OSC
° Define & establish CMMC Certification and Assessment boundaries.
° Implement Physical or Logical segmentation techniques.
¢ Document all assets within the scope.
¢ People.
° Technologies.
° Facilities.
* Document all out-of-scope assets.
¢ Based on the CMMC Level of the Assessment:
° Classify the assets.
e |dentify non-applicable controls related to the specific system.
If Level 2, agree with Lead Assessor on “Validated CMMC Boundaries” prior to the Assessment.
Organization Seeking
Certification
Figure 5-66: The OSC is responsible for defining, documenting, and establishing the CMMC
Certification and Assessment boundaries.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 306 ---
294 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Scoping: Roles & Responsibilities of the Lead Assessor
* Validate the CMMC Certification and Assessment Boundaries.
* Ensure all systems are accounted for based on sensitive information business process flows.
* Evaluate segmentation techniques for effectiveness.
* Agree with OSC on “Validated CMMC Boundaries” prior to the Level 2 Assessment.
|
Lead Assessor
Figure 5-67: The Lead Assessor will validate the CMMC Certification and Assessment boundaries
that were defined during scoping.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 307 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 295
Scoping: Roles and Responsibilities of a CCP
¢ Work with Company X to define CMMC boundaries. i ¢ N/A—Validation done by Lead Assessor.
e Use separation techniques to restrict CMMC scope. e Set up & maintain systems to meet CMMC guidelines. ¢ Draft documentation to prove compliance.
° Check to see if systems are configured correctly.
¢ Examine provided documentation.
Provide Consulting
Work for the OSC
Work on the
Assessment Team
The CCP’s C3PAO firm can be on only one side per OSC.
Figure 5-68: For a CCP, the consultant's role focuses on supporting the OSC in establishing
boundaries; while an Assessment Team Member's role is to support the Lead Assessor.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 308 ---
296 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Guidelines for Protecting FCI and CUI
— EE Identify the scope - determine which systems contain
a es sensitive information.
Contains No FCI/CUI
FCI/CUI
a Implement
_——"
: — Za i
Implement appropriate controls.
Security Contains
Controls FCI/CUI
Separate
WN TM—_——" : . . : . :
ee a we Provide logical and/or physical separation to restrict spillage
Contains No FCI/CUI of sensitive information into systems not rated for FCI/CUI.
FCI/CUI Separation
Figure 5-69: To protect sensitive information, you need to identify the scope, implement
appropriate controls, and separate the sensitive information from non-sensitive.
Notes
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 309 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 297
ACTIVITY 5-8
Using Separation Techniques to Limit Scope
Scenario
In one department of the Consolidated Flange Company, the engineering office has a network-
attached storage (NAS) device that contains documents labeled as CUI. The NAS device is in the
engineering office. The door to the engineering office has a cipher lock, requiring that personnel key
in a passcode to enter. The NAS itself is configured with user authentication, so that anyone
attempting to access the CUI documents must log in by providing a username and password.
Outside of the engineering office is the manufacturing floor, where there are computers used to
monitor the assembly line and control some production robots. The engineers are responsible for
not only creating new designs, but also monitoring and maintaining the production equipment, so
engineering and production share the same network.
fee =
NAS PC PC Switch
PC PC PC
Control Area
Engineering Office
Production Area
Door with
cipher lock
Manufacturing Floor
Figure 5-70: The factory layout.
1. It is intended that no CUI will be stored or processed in the systems located
on the manufacturing floor. Is the manufacturing floor, therefore, out of
scope?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 310 ---
298 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
2. How can you increase the likelihood that the manufacturing floor will be
considered out of scope by the assessor?
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries | Topic E
--- PAGE 311 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 299
Summary
In this lesson, you have learned about scoping and the importance of having a comprehensive
system inventory, as well as a catalog of the company's sensitive information that will need to be
protected. You have also learned how assessors will follow the information as it flows through a
company in order to determine what people, procedures, and systems will need to be included
within the scope boundaries for a CMMC Assessment. Finally, you learned how to limit scope.
What tools do you expect to use to follow the flow of protected information?
What do you think will be some challenges in identifying the systems in scope
fora CMMC Assessment?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 5: Scoping Certification and Assessment Boundaries |
--- PAGE 312 ---

--- PAGE 313 ---
Preparing the OSC
Lesson Time: 1 hour, 50 minutes
Lesson Introduction
As a CMMC Professional (CCP) consultant, it is imperative that you recognize your
responsibilities within the ecosystem. You will work with an Organization Seeking
Certification (OSC) to ensure that they can present information for the Assessment that is
appropriate in context, that demonstrates the sufficient adoption of the CMMC practices,
and that preserves the fidelity of the Assessment process. The OSC’s ability to contract with
the Department of Defense (DoD), and the protection of our nation’s information, will
depend heavily on the quality of your work. In this lesson, you will learn what is required to
shepherd an OSC on their path to CMMC Certification.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Provide guidance for OSCs to establish cybersecurity maturity.
* Evaluate whether an organization seeking to undergo a CMMC Assessment is ready.
--- PAGE 314 ---
302 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Foster a Mature Cybersecurity Culture
As a consultant working with an OSC, it's important for you to understand how to help the OSC
establish a mature cybersecurity culture.
Organizational Culture
Organizational culture: A set of values and ideas that reflect acceptable and unacceptable
practices and behaviors within an organization.
¢ Personality of an organization.
° Some values may be written.
e Mission and vision statement.
° Policies.
e Many values will be unwritten and assumed.
° Just how we do things.
e Learned through observation and informal communications. [ |
¢ Employees develop an organization’s culture over time. | |
° As it becomes more ingrained, it can be difficult to change. 22°
@eee @
Figure 6-1: Organizational culture is like the personality of the organization.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 315 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 303
Cybersecurity Culture
Cybersecurity culture: The combined organizational factors that put every employee in the
position to behave in ways that support cybersecurity or ways that place the company at risk.
¢ Strong cybersecurity culture involves alignment between:
° Organizational cybersecurity elements (e.g., policy, procedures, leadership, and social norms).
° Individual employee’s attitudes, knowledge, and assumptions about cybersecurity.
¢ To create a stable cybersecurity culture, cybersecurity needs to be a company -wide focus.
e All departments, not just IT.
¢ People make an organization secure, not technology.
¢ Weakest link in many breaches is people, so everyone needs to be trained and conscious of the risks.
e All employees must:
° Recognize they play a role in protecting critical information from digital attacks.
° Participate in regular training programs.
e Actively engage in behaviors and habits outlined by their cybersecurity program.
Figure 6-2: A strong cybersecurity culture exists when all employees understand they are
responsible for protecting sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 316 ---
304 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Institutionalization
Institutionalization: The action of establishing something as a convention or norm in an
organization or culture.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (Oxford Dictionary)
° Cybersecurity practices should become ingrained within the
company culture. Behaviors
° Are the correct technology controls implemented
throughout the company?
* Do all employees understand the risks and that they have
a critical role in protecting sensitive information? ° Are senior executives on board and do they support security initiatives?
Values and
Attitudes
Cybersecurity
Figure 6-3: Institutionalization is how cybersecurity becomes the center of an organization's
culture.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 317 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 305
Maturity Stages
ou* Wit:
Optimizing for
Establishing the long-term
{eo} , quantitative sustainment
Implementing framework
_ wy cultural
Establishing arene
r governance
Focusing on
compliance
Figure 6-4: As organizations move through the maturity stages, they will institutionalize
cybersecurity and ensure the protection of sensitive information.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 318 ---
306 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Governance
Y Governance: The policies, procedures and controls that are utilized by the OSC to assure
sustainment and continual improvement with respect to detection, prevention, and response to
cyber incidents.
* Governance should provide balance between strategic
planning and day-to-day operationalized approach, such as:
¢ Allocation of qualified personnel and resources.
° Active monitoring in support of:
° Service Level Agreements (SLAs).
° Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
° Predictive analysis and threat modeling.
° Ongoing risk management activities.
¢ Effective communication is paramount to effective
n
x Fed
governance.
° Internal/external assessments provide objective means to
identify and address weaknesses and strengthen controls.
4 oO
8 ga
Figure 6-5: Governance refers to policies, procedures, and controls used by the OSC for
sustainment and continual improvement of good cyber hygiene.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 319 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 307
Minimum Attributes of a Policy
Policy: An artifact or collection of artifacts that establishes governance over the implementation of
CMMC practices and activities.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
Policies should:
Clearly state the policy’s purpose.
Clearly define the scope of the policy (enterprise, department, or a specific information system).
Identify the roles and responsibilities of activities covered by the policy.
Identify the responsibility, authority, and ownership of activities in the domain.
Identify the procedures used to carry out and meet the intent of the policy.
Include any regulatory guidelines the policy addresses.
Be endorsed by management and disseminated to stakeholders.
Be periodically reviewed and updated.
Figure 6-6: Having policies is a part of mature governance and an effective policy should include
the attributes noted in this figure.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 320 ---
308 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Minimum Attributes of a Procedure
y Procedure: The documented details for how an activity is implemented to achieve a desired
outcome. A procedure should provide enough detail for a trained individual to perform the
activity. Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
¢ Procedures should minimally specify:
° Purpose (e.g., why the procedure is necessary).
° Objective (e.g., what needs to be done and how this will be accomplished).
¢ A description of roles, responsibilities, and authorities.
¢ A description of inputs/outputs.
° Criteria that must be met in support of the procedures.
° Any tools, information, and/or supporting resources, as required.
¢ Adefinition of key terminology.
° Detailed steps of how to perform the procedure.
Figure 6-7: Procedures provide the details necessary to implement a policy on a day-to-day
basis.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 321 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 309
Minimum Attributes of a Plan
y Plan: An artifact or collection of artifacts that provides oversight for implementing defined CMMC
policies.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
¢ Plans should include:
e Mission and/or vision statement.
° Strategic goals and objectives.
e Relevant standards and procedures.
° Project timelines and plans.
e Resource requirements for people and tools.
¢ Required training.
e Stakeholders necessary to implement.
Figure 6-8: Plans document the governance necessary to implement a policy and its related
procedures.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 322 ---
310 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Governance Establishment
° As part of governance, in order to retain their efficacy, cybersecurity policies, procedures, and
controls must be maintained through a plan.
Unmanaged assets introduce a higher risk for compromise and/or unintended outcomes.
Plans should include mechanisms for ongoing monitoring of the systems and associated controls
to ensure continued effectiveness.
Are all changes documented?
Does the plan still support current risks?
Does the plan address emerging threats?
Does the plan incorporate the “right” resources?
° Adequate and sufficient
° Expertise in staffing/tasking
Are there changes to the reporting requirements?
Is the plan commensurate to the potential risk of inadvertent disclosure?
Does the plan support the goal of ensuring cybersecurity controls and practices
are persistent and habitual?
Figure 6-9: As part of governance, cybersecurity policies, procedures, and controls must be
maintained; and resources should be efficiently assigned.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 323 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 311
Cultural Change Implementation
e Secure executive support.
° Reinforce norms by leading by example.
° Connect cybersecurity risks to other operational, financial, and legal risks.
¢ Establish clear business goals/KPIs.
¢ Establish a clear systematic culture management plan with a cross-functional team.
° Include Senior Management, Info Security, IT, HR, Legal, and Marketing.
° Identify employees’ views/understandings of cybersecurity culture or guidelines.
° Conduct focus groups and utilize scenario-based surveys.
e Use results to build customized training if possible.
° Keep policy and procedure communications user-friendly.
° What are the risks and what do people need to do/not do to avoid those risks?
¢ Implement regular hands-on awareness training.
* Goal must be to foster an intentional security culture, based on habits of action.
¢ Short frequent trainings sessions (semi-annually or quarterly).
° Focus on changing behavior.
° Customized by individual awareness, technical difficulty, or department risk profile.
° Implement a relentless and consistent message that helps employees
understand exactly how their daily behaviors have the potential to protect
or threaten the security of corporate data.
Figure 6-10: To ensure a mature culture of cybersecurity, companies need to create a cultural
change management plan.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 324 ---
312 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Quantitative Framework Establishment
° Provides for day-to-day measurement and control of the procedures in order to:
¢ Provide for appropriate visibility into the procedures, as performed, taking corrective action where necessary.
° Establish the right set of metrics and measure the appropriate attributes of the procedures and/or work
products produced.
¢ Metrics may be qualitative or quantitative.
° Qualitative - Observable vs. measurable (i.e., as derived through observations and interviews).
* Quantitative - Measured and structured, based on characteristics or traits (i.e., as derived through metrics
and testing).
° Measurement examples include:
° Actual vs. planned (performance of procedure).
° Identification and evaluation of significant deviations.
° Results of corrective actions.
¢ Reviews with “higher level management” are critical to the continued success of the
organization’s cybersecurity program.
e Reviews should provide sufficient visibility into the issue identified and
status/impacts of resulting corrective actions.
Figure 6-11: Establishing a quantitative framework and using the data to make adjustments in
cybersecurity planning and implementation shows a high level of maturity.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 325 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 313
Optimization for Long-Term Sustainment
° Standardization provides for consistency in the implementation of policies, practices, and controls
across the organization, defining activities to be performed while providing guidance in tailoring.
¢ A standardized organizational practice typically provides:
e Ample description of the practices and practice objectives.
° Process flow diagrams (including, entry/exit criterion).
° Specified performance metrics.
° Procedures for incorporation of lessons learned and improvements.
° Optimization is contingent upon practice stability.
BO 7
° 4
Figure 6-12: Standardization and optimization are key to long-term sustainment of a mature
cybersecurity culture.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 326 ---
314 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 6-1
Fostering a Mature Cybersecurity Culture
Scenario
You have been hired as a consultant to help an OSC prepare for a CMMC Assessment. Before
proceeding to any pre-assessment steps, you decide that it's beneficial for the OSC to understand
what it means to foster a solid cybersecurity culture.
1. What is the relationship between a policy and a procedure?
2. Why do you need a plan as part of governance?
3. Why is implementing cultural change a critical step in building cybersecurity
maturity?
4. How does having a mature cybersecurity culture help with a CMMC
Assessment?
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | TopicA
--- PAGE 327 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 315
TOPIC B
Evaluate Readiness
Now that you understand how to foster a culture of good cybersecurity hygiene in an OSC, you are
ready to take the first step towards helping the OSC prepare fora CMMC Assessment. In this topic,
you will learn how to evaluate whether the OSC is ready for a formal Assessment.
Identify, the Desired CMMC Level
co
°, Which CMMC Level?
*. €ULinformation not found or expected - CMMC Level 1 is likely sufficient.
¢ CUlinformation is found or expected - CMMC Level 2 is required.
° Once rule-making is completed, new contracts will indicate CMMC requirements in solicitations.
¢ Per DoD Policy, CMMC requirements cannot be retroactively
incorporated into existing contracts without a contract
modification.
e When the current contract draws to a close, CMMC can be incorporated
into any extensions or other contract modifications.
¢ When a contract is up for re-competition, CMMC requirements can be incorporated into contract at that time. * OSCs can contact their DoD Contracting Officer Representative
(COR) to determine the CMMC Level that their existing contract(s)
would likely require.
SCN ehi se
K-
ND
NO CUI FOUND
PS
om
Figure 6-13: OSCs determine the CMMC Level against which they wish to be assessed by first
looking to see if they have CUI in their environment and what the contract requires.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 328 ---
316 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Identify the Scope
° Scoping is information driven.
e Understand organizational context and requirements:
° CMMC Level
° CMMC Assessment Guide
° CMMC Assessment Scope
¢ NIST 800-171
° NIST 800-171A
° Identify people, technology, facilities, and external service providers.
° Identify assets involved in creating and receiving FCI/CUI.
¢ Determine context and categorization of FCI/CUI:
° Creation for the government
e Receipt from the government
° Determine system functionality (e.g., anti-malware, access control).
° Determine connectivity to FCI/CUI environments.
Figure 6-14: Effective scoping is accomplished through an understanding of how sensitive
information moves within the OSC.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 329 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 317
Opportunities to Evaluate Preparedness for an Assessment
Gap Analysis: An evaluation that examines the organization’s processes ‘as
OSC Preparation performed’ to identify issues, impediments, and potential risks to sustained
Possibly working with —=—"_simplementation.
a consultant ° Performed by the OSC or by a CCP or RP consultant.
* Consultant might be part of the CMMC ecosystem or external to it.
Evidence Validation: An evaluation that examines sufficiency of evidence
presented by the OSC, ensuring it meets the intent and objectives of the
=— control or practice.
° Performed by the OSC or by a CCP or RP consultant.
* Optional event that verifies OSC is prepared for the formal Assessment.
CMMC Assessment
Working with a C3PAO asad Certification Assessment Readiness Review (CA-RR): A preliminary but formal
review to verify the OSC’s readiness for the Assessment against the identified
Assessment planning parameters and Assessment scope.
* Conducted by the Lead Assessor and, as applicable, the Assessment Team.
° Part of the pre-work for an Assessment.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Note: The terms “Gap Analysis” and “Certification Assessment Readiness Review” appear within the CMMC documentation. “Evidence
Validation,” while not an official CMMC term, is used here to refer to this task that is commonly performed by OSC’s preparing for an
Assessment.
Figure 6-15: Gap Analysis and Evidence Validation are done by an OSC before applying for a
CMMC Assessment. The CA-RR is done by the Lead Assessor as part of the pre-work for the
Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 330 ---
318 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Gap Analysis
° ACMMC Gap Analysis:
° Helps to guide initial understanding of current OSC capabilities and controls.
* Helps to identify insufficiencies in the implementation of critical controls and practices.
* Encourages engagement of OSC stakeholders earlier in the Assessment process.
° Conducted by:
° The OSC or optionally by a RP or CCP acting as a consultant.
° Aprovider outside of the CMMC ecosystem.
* Potential pitfall is they have no access to supporting
mechanisms to ensure consistency.
+--gap-->
—_=s _—,
Figure 6-16: A CMMC Gap Analysis provides critical contextual information on differences
between the OSC environment and the CMMC Model.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 331 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 319
Closing Gaps
° When gaps in implementation are identified, it’s critical to not only understand the present issue,
but also to create a meaningful plan for resolution of these issues.
° As aCCP working as a consultant for the OSC, this may include:
Describe the nature and impact of issues (current state).
Propose actions to help resolve gaps (future state).
Identify changes to existing policies, plans, practices, resources and artifacts.
Develop a resourced plan to address approved gap action items.
Verify that gaps are properly closed, and that the corresponding implementation demonstrates that the
control/objective is met (persistent and habitual).
Articulate any issues in a timely manner with leadership and designated points of contact.
Communicate preliminary readiness with OSC.
Figure 6-17: As a consultant, for an Assessment.
a CCP might help an OSC close any identified gaps as they prepare
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 332 ---
320 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Evidence Validation
° Means for OSC to engage in preparatory steps for formal Level 2 Assessment.
\ ° As a CCP working as a consultant, you may be asked to help support the OSC.
° Goal is to create a set of Evidence as preparation for formal Assessment.
° Helps OSC understand and organize Evidence for Assessment.
° Provides a high-level determination of Evidence sufficiency.
° This may include creating and/or developing:
° Aninventory report of all Evidence for the target CMMC Level.
° A\list of all policies and related plans in scope for the target CMMC Level.
° A list of all personnel who will need to participate in the Assessment.
° All the above mapped to in-scope CMMC practices and Levels.
4 hird-Partye
CONSULTANT
“S77
This way to
assessment
Figure 6-18: An Evidence Validation involves looking at the planned Evidence from an Assessor's
perspective to help an OSC prepare for the formal Level 2 Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 333 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 321
Benefits of Evidence Validation
¢ Earlier validation of scope and evidence sufficiency.
¢ Increased identification and understanding of:
¢ Implementation.
* Compliance issues.
° Earlier detection and resolution of issues that can impact the Assessment and Assessment timing.
¢ Proactive engagement of project teams, supporting staff, and external stakeholders.
Figure 6-19: An Evidence Validation is an excellent opportunity for an OSC to identify and
remediate issues before they negatively impact an Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 334 ---
322 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Methods — Forms of Evidence
The process of reviewing, inspecting, observing, studying, or analyzing
assessment objects (i.e., specifications, mechanisms, activities).
The process of holding discussions with individuals or groups of
individuals to facilitate understanding, achieve clarification, or
obtain evidence.
The process of exercising assessment objects (i.e., activities,
mechanisms) under specified conditions to compare actual
with expected behavior.
Source: CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2
Figure 6-20: The three Assessment methods are examine artifacts, interview people, and observe
tests of systems.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 335 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 323
Evidence Validation Preparation Guidelines
° The number and type of Evidence collected is up to the Lead Assessor’s discretion.
° Plan to have two pieces of Evidence from two different Assessment methods for thoroughness.
° Examine and Interview.
° Examine and Test.
° Interview and Test.
e Multiple pieces of Evidence can be used within an Assessment method.
¢ You might plan to have two interviews to validate one practice:
e Interview the Marketing Director to learn about posting information on publicly available website.
° Interview with webmaster to validate that the process for posting information on the organization’s
website is consistent with the Marketing Director’s information.
¢ Comprehensiveness.
¢ OSC determines level of effort needed to prepare for an Assessment.
e OSC determines how to meet the objectives in a cost-effective manner.
The number and type of Evidence is up to Lead Assessor’s discretion.
Figure 6-21: The number and types of Evidence used in the Assessment is the Lead Assessor's
call.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 336 ---
324 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Examination Preparation
* Collect all documentation for the CMMC Level 1 and Level 2 practices.
° Interviews with OSC staff may identify the documents.
* Documents need to be in their final forms.
° Drafts can't to be submitted as Evidence because they are:
° Not yet official.
° Still subject to change.
* Common types of documents that can be used as Evidence include applicable:
¢ Policy, process, and procedure documents.
° Training materials.
° Plans and planning documents.
° System-level, network, and data flow diagrams.
° This list of documents is not exhaustive or prescriptive.
e An OSC may not have these specific documents.
° Other documents may be used to provide evidence of compliance.
Figure 6-22: Collect any documents that you plan to use as artifacts. Remember, they can't be in
draft form.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 337 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 325
Interview Preparation
° Identify individuals likely to be interviewed.
° Staff who perform the tasks that will be assessed in a Level 2 Assessment.
° Staff might be at different organizational levels.
° Verify that staff have adequate resourcing, training, and planning to perform the practices.
INTERVIEW
PREPARATION
Figure 6-23: Identify the people who perform the practices and ensure they are trained to do that
work.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 338 ---
326 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Test Preparation
e Identify potential tests.
° Lead Assessor will determine which practices need demonstration or testing.
° Some practices may be best assessed by checking that safeguards are in place by:
e Viewing hardware.
° Viewing associated configuration information.
° Observing staff following a process.
° Testing is an important part of the Assessment process.
° Interviews tell the Lead Assessor and CCAs what the OSC staff believe to be true.
¢ Documentation artifacts provide evidence of intent.
° Testing demonstrates what has or has not been done.
¢ For example, for IA.L1-3.5.1:
© OSC staff may talk about how users are identified.
¢ Documentation may provide details on how users are identified.
° Seeing a demonstration of identifying users provides
evidence that the practice is met.
Figure 6-24: Identify ways that you might demonstrate implementation of practices for a Lead
Assessor or CCA to observe.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 339 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 327
Guidelines for Evaluating Readiness
las
ey
Seek first to understand, then continuously validate this understanding.
Ensure alignment of preparation activities to the CMMC Assessment Guides.
S355
Engage the expertise of those directly responsible for performance of the
control/practice.
“
Il
Utilize applicable standards and guidelines.
Identify and record opportunities for improvement.
p: J
g\
Encourage preparation as a means to build a shared
understanding of the Assessment process.
Figure 6-25: Evaluating readiness is one important way a CCP can partner with an OSC to help
them prepare for a formal Level 2 Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 340 ---
328 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 6-2
Evaluating Readiness
Scenario
The company where you work, an Organization Seeking Certification (OSC), has put you through
training to get you certified as a CCP. They want to have someone on staff who will help them
prepare the company for CMMC Certification.
4. When you return to your company, how might you start helping them
prepare?
2. You've completed a gap analysis for your company, and you believe you have
helped them close all the gaps. At that point, is the OSC ready for
Assessment, or is there something else that must also be done?
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC | Topic B
--- PAGE 341 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 329
Summary
In this lesson, you started with the fundamentals of how to foster a cybersecurity culture within an
organization. You also learned how to perform a gap analysis that evaluates the Evidence and
determines an OSC's readiness for a formal Assessment. You learned how to plan, collect, and
organize Evidence, as well as how to review that Evidence using the same methods that an assessor
uses to ensure the OSC is ready for the formal Assessment.
How will you plan to implement a cultural change to institutionalize cybersecurity
in your organization?
Do you think Gap Analyses or Evidence Validations will be more challenging for
you? Why?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 6: Preparing the OSC |
--- PAGE 342 ---

--- PAGE 343 ---
Determining and
Assessing Evidence
Lesson Time: 2 hours, 40 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you understand the general methods that Certified CMMC Assessors (CCAs) will
utilize, you can turn your attention to the details of using the CMMC Assessment Guides to
assess practices and their associated Assessment Objectives. Obviously, using the
Assessment Guides is a key task if you are a member of an Assessment Team, but they will
also guide your work as a Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) working as a consultant,
especially in performing a gap analysis and an Evidence Validation. In this lesson, you will
be introduced to the structure and components of the CMMC Assessment Guides and how
to use them to determine Evidence and assess practice requirements.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Determine the Evidence needed for the CMMC Assessment.
¢ Assess practices using the CMMC Assessment Guides.
--- PAGE 344 ---
332 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Determine Evidence
Now that you know how to evaluate readiness, you can turn your attention to working with the
Evidence. In this topic, you will learn how assessors will assess the practices. By being able to think
like an assessor, you can better prepare an OSC as a consultant or work on an Assessment Team
under the leadership of CMMC Lead Assessor.
Effective Assessments
° Effective assessments are:
Objective
Comprehensive
Flexible
Accurate
Consistent
Thoughtful
° The CMMC Assessment Process (CAP):
Helps to organize and leverage these characteristics.
Produces consistently objective, targeted assessments.
Ensures that context is preserved.
Offers additional guidance and documentation for conducting assessments to:
° CCPs
° CCAs
° Lead Assessors
° Assessment Team Members
Figure 7-1: CCPs should ensure that actions in partnership with an OSC are supportive of these
tenets of effective assessments.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 345 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 333
The CMMC Assessment Process (CAP)
° Provided by The Cyber AB, the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) documentation:
¢ Is the definitive source for conducting CMMC Certification Assessments.
* Describes the critical activities that need to be performed.
° The CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) phases include:
C) Phase 1: Plan and Prepare the Assessment
(> Phase 2: Conduct the Assessment
C ) Phase 3: Report Recommended Assessment Results
C ) Phase 4: CMMC Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) Close-Out Assessment
Figure 7-2: The CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) has three main phases; the POA&M Close-Out
Assessment won't occur in every Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | TopicA
--- PAGE 346 ---
334 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Assessment References
NIST 800-171A
e Underlying source of majority of practices.
CMMC Self-Assessment Guide - Level 1
e Applies to FCl-based enclaves, enterprises, or business lines.
° Consists of the FAR 52 requirements.
° Aligns with NIST SP 800-171A Assessment Procedures.
CERTIFICATION —
ww
° Includes overview information about scope, assessments, and activities.
° CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2 DOCUMENTATION
° Guide applies to Levels 1 and 2.
° Applies to both CUI & FCI enclaves.
° Aligns with NIST SP 800-171A Assessment Procedures.
¢ Includes overview information about scope, assessments, activities, separation techniques, and external
service provider considerations.
° CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 3
e Under development.
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
* Consolidated list of terms and acronyms that span both guides.
Figure 7-3: NIST 800-171A, the CMMC Assessment Guides, and the CMMC Glossary are all
helpful references.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 347 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 335
Evidence
Evidence: The observable proof that an organization has either met or not met the standard for a
particular CMMC practice.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
* The body of data, or proof, that an organization either
meets or does not meet the objectives of the domain,
control, or practices.
° Must meet CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) requirements:
° Adequacy
° Does the presented artifact, interview, or test/demo meet the
intent of the CMMC practice?
° Sufficiency
* Does the presented artifact, interview, or test/demo provide
the Assessment Team with enough of the “right data”?
Figure 7-4: Evidence identification, collection, and review should support the requirements of
adequacy and sufficiency.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 348 ---
336 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Methods Used by CCPs and CCAs
The process of reviewing, inspecting, observing, studying, or analyzing
assessment objects (i.e., specifications, mechanisms, activities).
The process of holding discussions with individuals or groups of
individuals to facilitate understanding, achieve clarification, or
obtain evidence.
The process of exercising assessment objects (i.e., activities,
mechanisms) under specified conditions to compare actual with
expected behavior.
Source: CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2
Figure 7-5: CCPs and CCAs will examine artifacts, interview the people who perform
cybersecurity tasks, and observe tests of systems in order to make their evaluation.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | TopicA
--- PAGE 349 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 337
Key Terminology
Artifacts: Tangible and reviewable records that are the direct outcome of a practice or process being
performed by a system, person or persons performing a role in that practice, control, or process.
Artifacts may be a printed hard-copy or a soft- or electronic copy of a document or file embedded in
a system or software but must be a result or an output from the performance of a process within the
OSC.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Stakeholder: A person with an interest or concern in the success of a business. Interviews with them
provide an excellent opportunity to gain insight and establish context.
Observation: A real-time demonstration or review of a test, system, tool, software, hardware,
practice, control, or process being performed and witnessed first-hand by the Lead Assessor and, if
applicable, Assessment Team.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 7-6: Some key terminology for the Assessment Process.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 350 ---
338 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Examples of Using Evidence Methods
For example: Access Control Practice AC.L2-3.1.9 states:
¢ “Provide privacy and security notices consistent with applicable CUI rules.”
Examine:
° Examine privacy/security policies, procedures for use of privacy & security notices.
Interview:
* Conduct interview(s) with system/network administrators, system developers, etc.
Test:
* Observe a demonstration of the notification system (banner warnings, etc.).
Figure 7-7: Examples of the three Evidence methods when applied to AC.L2-3.1.9.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | TopicA
--- PAGE 351 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 339
Evidence Collection, Preparation, and Generation
° Evidence must demonstrate adequacy and sufficiency of the practice or control.
° The Assessment Team can examine and accept any of the three Evidence types:
¢ Examination (artifacts)
° Interview
° Observation/Test
e Evidence must be applicable to the practice or control being evaluated.
e The Evidence accepted must:
¢ Be relevant to the domain, practice or control.
° Satisfy the practice objectives.
¢ Fully represent the performance of the practice or control.
Figure 7-8: When preparing for an external Assessment, determine if you have the right Evidence
(adequacy) and if you have enough of that Evidence (sufficiency).
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 352 ---
340 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Evidence Method Intent and Usage
e Evidence methods for each domain, practice, and/or control to ascertain:
° Context - Is the Evidence supportive and applicable to both Assessment scope and the practice objectives?
e Integrity - Is the Evidence representative of the current practices of the OSC being assessed?
° Degree of instantiation - Does the Evidence presented support the requirements of adequacy and sufficiency?
¢ The results are used to support the determination of:
° Security safeguard existence
¢ Functionality
° Correctness
* Completeness
¢ Potential for institutionalization and improvement over time
Figure 7-9: The intent behind the Examine, Interview, and Test methods is to determine
institutionalization of security safeguards.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | TopicA
--- PAGE 353 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 341
Evidence Acceptability
Method Acceptability
Examine Interview Test For an artifact to be accepted as Evidence in an Assessment, it must:
° Demonstrate the extent of implementing, performing, or supporting the organizational or
project procedures that can be mapped to one or more CMMC practices;
° Be produced by people who implement or perform or support the procedures.
For an interview statement to be accepted as Evidence in an Assessment, it must:
° Demonstrate the extent of implementing, performing, or supporting the CMMC practice;
° Be provided by people who implement, perform, or support procedures.
For a test/demonstration to be accepted as Evidence in an Assessment, it must:
° Pass its requirements and criteria while being observed by the Assessment Team.
Any failed test results in a failed CMMC practice.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 7-10: For Evidence to be acceptable, it must be created, provided, or demonstrated by
people who implement the practice.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 354 ---
342 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Organization of Evidence in Preparation for an Assessment
¢ As areminder, for each in-scope practice, the OSC must demonstrate the following:
° The practice is being performed.
¢ The control, and any related policy, plan, or procedure is effectively implemented.
° The Evidence is current and produced by those members of the OSC performing the task.
¢ Evidence should be organized in a manner that:
° Supports Assessment objectives.
¢ Provides for ease of access, interpretation, and review.
° The OSC should maintain a “mapping” of Evidence to its source, including:
° Traceability to domain/practice
° Artifact name/version number/date
° Comments or contextual data
° Source
Figure 7-11: Preparation efforts must be guided to satisfy the Assessment Objectives and
evaluated for organizational maturity.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 355 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 343
OSC Documents Helpful to CMMC Assessments
e The Lead Assessor and CCAs will request review of documents and records that are specific to the
scope and boundaries of the OSC’s Assessment, such as:
System Security Plans (SSPs)
IT and Security Policies
IT and Security Standards/Procedures
Organizational Charts
Shared Responsibility Matrix
Network Diagrams
Results of Third-Party Audits and Assessments:
° FedRAMP
° HIPAA
° ISO
° SOC II
° HITRUST
Figure 7-12: These documents aren't all necessarily required, but they can be helpful to a Lead
Assessor and the Assessment Team.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | TopicA
--- PAGE 356 ---
344 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Access Limitations to the Organization's CUI and FCI
* The OSC determines what information the Assessment Team has access to and what they can take
off site post-assessment.
* Most Assessment Examine, Interview, and Test steps will be focused on systems and their
controls—not the data flowing through those systems.
* Assessors will obviously see some data, that cannot be helped, but it will only be tangential to their
Assessment, not the focus of it.
* During the scoping decision-making for the Assessment, decisions are made as to which systems have
FCI/CUI, so there is no need to confirm that fact.
° If the Assessment Team requests to take information off site:
° The OSC will likely be very resistant to such requests.
° The OSC will probably demand an NDA or other protections from the Assessment Team.
Figure 7-13: The OSC sets the limits on the Assessment Team's access to regulated information.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 357 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 345
ACTIVITY 7-1
Determining Evidence
Scenario
You are helping an OSC prepare for a Level 2 CMMC Assessment. As part of that process, you are
helping them determine what Evidence they can use to demonstrate they have implemented
required practices.
Your current task is to obtain Evidence that removable media, such as USB thumb drives and
external hard drives, can't be mounted on the systems that are in scope.
1. Through discussion with the OSC's IT administrator, you identify which
machines have been configured with a security control that prevents USB
drives from being mounted. What Assessment method have you used here?
O Examine
O- Test
O Interview
2. You insert a thumb drive into a computer's USB port. In this case, what
method are you most likely using to obtain Evidence?
O Examine
O Test
O Interview
3. Next, you have the IT administrator open some configuration utilities to
confirm how the computer was configured to prevent the USB drive from
being mounted. What method are you using to obtain Evidence in this case?
O Examine
O- Test
O Interview
4. You are trying to find Evidence to prove that a particular practice has been
put into place at the OSC. How might you come up with ideas for the type of
Evidence you might use?
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic A
--- PAGE 358 ---
346 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC B
Assess the Practices Using the CMMC
Assessment Guides
In this topic, you will learn how the Assessment Guides are structured to support you in assessing
practices. Being able to use the Assessment Guides to assess practices is a key competency for a
CCP.
CMMC Assessment Requirements
NIST SP
800-172
Level 1 17
Level 2 93
Level 3
mw] +) ZX = [Hm
Practices from Practices from noumulative
Is NIST 800-172 equirements
NIST 800-171 ae Level 3
Figure 7-14: In Level 1 and Level 2, all the CMMC practices that are assessed come from NIST SP
800-171. In Level 3, the practices will be from NIST SP 800-172, but the details regarding which
specific practices will be included are still being defined.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 359 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 347
ISOO CUI Notice 2020-04
* You must use NIST SP 800-171A to assess NIST SP 800-171.
¢ The CMMC Assessment Guides incorporate NIST SP 800-171A.
INFORMATION SECURITY OVERSIGHT OFFICE
NATIONAL ARCHIVES and RECORDS ADMINISTRATION G ISOO©
700 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, NW, ROOM 100) WASHINGTON, DC 20408-0001
www.archives.gov/isoo
INFORMATION SECURITY
OVERSIGHT OFFICE
V-LZL-OO8 LSIN
CUI Notice 2020-04: Assessing Security Requirements for CUI in Non-Federal Information
Systems
June 16, 2020
i)
ASSESSINICIIL VUIUAIILE
6. When any entity assesses compliance with the security requirements
of NIST SP 800-171, they must use the NIST SP 800-171A procedures
Figure 7-15: The CMMC Assessment Guides incorporate NIST SP 800-171A.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 360 ---
348 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The CMMC Assessment Guides
CMMC Self-Assessment Guide - Level 1
° Self Assessment and Compliance
° Describes how self-assessment fits within the CMMC framework.
° Describes how CMMC assessment follows a data-centric process applicable to contractor of all sizes.
° Describes self-assessment scope and identifies where to find additional information.
CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2
e Assessment and Certification
° Provides an overview of the CMMC assessment and certification process.
° Provides guidance on the applicability of CMMC regardless of contractor size. |NZ
° Provides an overview of the asset categories used in scoping.
Both Assessment Guides include:
¢ CMMC-Specific Terms
° Lists definitions of terms critical to interpreting CMMC practices. * Assessment Criteria and Methodology ° Describes the assessment methods, objects, criteria, process, and findings.
* Practice Descriptions @ cune setr-rssessment Guide
rn
G] <210%0 Assessment cue
° Provides detailed information on the self-assessment requirements and specifics.
Published by the DoD. https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
Figure 7-16: The CMMC Assessment Guides are published by the DoD, and you should
periodically check the DoD CIO CMMC website for updates.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 361 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 349
Structure of Practice Descriptions
¢ Practice Number, Name, and Statement
¢ The number, short name identifier, and the complete CMMC practice statement.
¢ Assessment Objectives [SOURCE]
° Specific list of objectives that must be met to fulfill the requirement.
Potential Assessment Methods and Objects [SOURCE]
* Discussion [SOURCE]
¢ Information from the original source of the requirement (e.g., NIST SP 800-171 R2).
¢ Further Discussion
° Information about the intent of the practice.
° Examples for insight that are not intended to be prescriptive or comprehensive.
e Assessment considerations and potential questions.
¢ Key References
¢ The related security requirements from FAR Clause 52.204-21 and NIST SP 800-171 R2.
° For example, NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.1.1.
¢ Sources that provide information to further understand the concepts.
e Remember, the CMMC Assessment Guides and the CMMC Model Overview are the only authoritative
sources for CMMC practices.
Figure 7-17: The structure of the Assessment Guide practice descriptions is similar to NIST SP
800-171A, but in paragraph form, and it also provides additional discussion.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 362 ---
350 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Depth and Coverage
CMMC
Assessment
Comprehensive
DFARS 7019
High
Depth
“The depth
attribute
addresses the Focused DFARS 7019
rigor and level of
Medium
detail of the
assessment” Self-Attestation
Basic DFARS 7019
Basic
Focused Comprehensive
Coverage
“The coverage attribute addresses the scope or breadth of the
assessment.”
Figure 7-18: Based on the ISOO CUI Notice 2020-04, all CMMC Assessments and all DIBCAC NIST
SP 800-171 assessments must be done at the Comprehensive level for full compliance.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 363 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 351
Toe
ea
wD
Os .wiC Assessment Guide Procedure
e
=
a
pa
o
r=)
°
=~
N
ea
°
Practices
Sourced from NIST Objectives
SP 800-171
requirements Broken down to
Assessment
Objectives to be Approaches to Objects
measured against evaluate compliance
and conformity Objects, based on
the Method, that are
appropriate to
evaluate
Figure 7-19: Each practice requirement has objectives to be measured against, approaches to
evaluate compliance, and objects that are appropriate to evaluate.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 364 ---
352 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Methods and Objects Used by CCPs and CCAs
Examine
Objects Interview
Objects Objects
The process of reviewing, inspecting, observing, studying, or analyzing assessment objects (i.e.,
specifications, mechanisms, activities). The results are used in making specific determinations called
for in the determination statements and thereby achieving the objectives for the assessment
procedure.
Specifications | Examples: policies, plans, procedures, system requirements, designs.
Mechanisms | Examples: functionality implemented in hardware, software, firmware.
Activities | Examples: system operations, administration, management, exercises.
The process of holding discussions with individuals or groups of individuals to facilitate
understanding, achieve clarification, or obtain evidence. The results are used in making specific
determinations called for in the determination statements and thereby achieving the objectives for
the assessment procedure.
Individuals or | Examples: Personnel with risk assessment responsibilities; personnel with
Groups | information security responsibilities; system or network administrators;
personnel with account management responsibilities.
The process of exercising assessment objects (i.e., activities, mechanisms) under specified
conditions to compare actual with expected behavior. The results are used in making specific
determinations called for in the determination statements and thereby achieving the objectives for
the assessment procedure.
Mechanisms | Examples: hardware, software, firmware.
Activities | Examples: system operations, administration, management, exercises.
Source: CMMC Assessment Guide - Level 2
Figure 7-20: The three CMMC Assessment methods used by CCPs and CCAs are Examine,
Interview, and Test.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 365 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 353
Example: Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2
3.5.3 SECURITY REQUIREMENT
Use multifactor authentication for local and network access to privileged accounts and
for network access to non-privileged accounts.
CMMC Assessment Guide Level 2
IA.L2-3.5.3
Use multifactor authentication for local and network access to privileged accounts and
for network access to normprivileged accounts.
Figure 7-21: A look at IA.L2-3.5.3 shows how it is the same as the NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2,
requirement 3.5.3.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 366 ---
354 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
MFA: Assessment Objectives
IA. L2-3.5.3
Use multifactor authentication for local and network access to privileged accounts and for
network access to non-privileged accounts.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVE [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] _| privileged accounts are identified.
[b] [multifactor authentication is implemented for local access to privileged accounts.
[c] | multifactor authentication is implemented for network access to privileged accounts.
[d] | multifactor authentication is implemented for network access to non-privileged accounts.
Figure 7-22: Each of these objectives must be satisfied for IA.L2-3.5.3 to be marked as MET ina
CMMC Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 367 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 355
MFA: Methods and Objects
IA. L2-3.5.3
Use multifactor authentication for local and network access to privileged accounts and for
network access to non-privileged accounts.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVE [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] privileged accounts are identified.
[b] multifactor authentication is implemented for local access to privileged accounts.
[c] multifactor authentication is implemented for network access to privileged accounts.
[d] multifactor authentication is implemented for network access to non-privileged accounts.
POTENTIAL ASSESSMENT METHODS AND OBJECTS [NIST SP 800-171A]
Examine: [SELECT FROM: Identification and authentication policy; procedures addressing user identification
and authentication; system security plan; system design documentation; system configuration
settings and associated documentation; system audit logs and records; list of system accounts; other
relevant documents or records].
Interview: [SELECT FROM: Personnel with system operations responsibilities; personnel with account
management responsibilities; personnel with information security responsibilities; system or
network administrators; system developers].
Test: [SELECT FROM: Mechanisms supporting or implementing multifactor authentication capability].
Figure 7-23: The Assessment Guide provides a list of potential Assessment Methods and Objects,
but it is not comprehensive.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 368 ---
356 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
MFA: Applying Assessment Methods
Examine:
¢ View the list of privileged accounts.
Interview:
° Talk to the people who:
e Approve privileged accounts.
¢ Add privileged accounts to the list.
Test:
¢ Observe that privileged accounts are prompted for multifactor authentication.
Figure 7-24: Here is an example of what an assessor might apply to the Methods for IA.L2-3.5.3
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 369 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 357
Example: Notice and Consent Banners
AC.L2-3.1.9
Provide privacy and security notices consistent with applicable CUI rules.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVE [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] | privacy and security notices required by CUl-specified rules are identified, consistent, and
associated with the specific CUI category.
[b] | privacy and security notices are displayed.
POTENTIAL ASSESSMENT METHODS AND OBJECTS [NIST SP 800-171A]
Examine: [SELECT FROM: Privacy and security policies, procedures addressing system use
notification; documented approval of system use notification messages or banners; system
audit logs and records; system design documentation; user acknowledgements of
notification message or banner; system security plan; system use notification messages;
system configuration settings and associated documentation; other relevant documents or
records].
Interview: [SELECT FROM: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; personnel with responsibility for providing legal advice; system
developers].
Test [SELECT FROM: Mechanisms implementing system use notification].
Figure 7-25: The Assessment Objectives and Potential Assessment Methods and Objects for
AC.L2-3.1.9.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 370 ---
358 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Banners: Applying Assessment Methods
Examine:
e View the system usage notification messages.
Interview:
° Talk to people responsible for applying the banners.
Test:
° Observe if notice & consent banners are on all systems in scope.
e PCs
e Servers
¢ Networking gear
° Office 365
e Others
Figure 7-26: Here is an example of ways an assessor might apply the methods for AC.L2-3.1.9.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 371 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 359
Example: Separation of Duties
AC.L2-3.1.4
Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVE [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] | the duties of individuals requiring separation are defined;
[b] | responsibilities for duties that require separation are assigned to separate individuals;
[c] | access privileges that enable individuals to exercise the duties that require separation are granted to
separate individuals.
POTENTIAL ASSESSMENT METHODS AND OBJECTS [NIST SP 800-171A]
Examine: [SELECT FROM: Access control policy; procedures addressing divisions of responsibility and
separation of duties; system security plan; system configuration settings and associated
documentation; list of divisions of responsibility and separation of duties; system access
authorizations; system audit logs and records; other relevant documents or records].
Interview: [SELECT FROM: Personnel with responsibilities for defining divisions of responsibility and
separation of duties; personnel with information security responsibilities; system or
network administrators].
Test: [SELECT FROM: Mechanisms implementing separation of duties policy].
Figure 7-27: The Assessment Objective and Potential Assessment Methods for AC.L2-3.1.4.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 372 ---
360 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Separation of Duties: Discussion
AC.L2-3.1.4
Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.
DISCUSSION: [NIST SP 800-171 R2]
* Separation of duties addresses the potential for abuse of authorized privileges and helps to
reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion. Separation of duties includes dividing
mission functions and system support functions among different individuals or roles;
conducting system support functions with different individuals (e.g., configuration
management, quality assurance and testing, system management, programming, and network
security); and ensuring that security personnel administering access control functions do not
also administer audit functions. Because separation of duty violations can span systems and
application domains, organizations consider the entirety of organizational systems and system
components when developing policy on separation of duties.
Figure 7-28: All practices include Discussion from a relevant source.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 373 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 361
Separation of Duties: Further Discussion
AC.L2-3.1.4
Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.
FURTHER DISCUSSION:
No one person should be in charge of an entire critical task from beginning to end. Documenting and dividing
elements of important duties and tasks between employees reduces intentional or unintentional execution of
malicious activities.
Example 1
* You are responsible for the management of several key systems within your organization. You assign the task
of reviewing the system logs to two different people. This way, no one person is solely responsible for the
execution of this critical security function [c].
Example 2
* You are a system administrator. Human Resources notifies you of a new hire, and you create an account with
general privileges, but you are not allowed to grant access to systems that contain CUI [a, b]. The program
manager contacts the team in your organization that has system administration authority over the CUI systems
and informs them which CUI the new hire will need to access. Subsequently, a second system administrator
grants access privileges to the new hire [c].
Potential Assessment Considerations
* Does system documentation identify the system functions or processes that require separation of duties (e.g.,
function combinations that represent a conflict of interest or an over-allocation of security privilege for one
individual [a]?
Figure 7-29: All practices have a Further Discussion section that provides some descriptive (not
prescriptive) Examples and Potential Assessment Considerations.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 374 ---
362 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Discussion and Further Discussion Sections
0 0 Q 3 0 O hinki Th
* Do not read too much into the Discussion or Further Discussion sections. | Overhinking The Problem
¢ Not comprehensive. (<5) Please wait a moment...
¢ Descriptive about possible ways to address the practice. 1
¢ Not prescriptive.
° Don’t consider these sections directions on how practices should be implemented.
° Focus on the Assessment Objectives.
¢ Provide crucial detail on what will be assessed as MET/NOT MET.
¢ Excerpt from Discussion for AC.L2-3.1.4:
° “Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.”
¢ [a] {determine if} the duties of individuals requiring separation are defined.
e FURTHER DISCUSSION: No one person should be in charge of an entire critical task from beginning to end.
¢ Potential Assessment Considerations: Does system documentation identify the system functions or
processes that require separation of duties (e.g., function combinations that represent a conflict of interest
or an over-allocation of security privilege for one individual) [a]?
Figure 7-30: Use the Assessment Objectives not your own personal opinion on best practices.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 375 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 363
CMMC Assessment Procedures
e The Assessment Team must assess all Assessment Objectives for each practice.
° Each Assessment Objective is scored as MET, NOT MET, or N/A.
° CCPs can only assess and score Level 1 practices.
° CCAs can assess and score Levels 1 and 2 practices.
e Where multiple systems or systems of type overlap to provide the capability (e.g., on -premise file share and
Office 365 Teams), each system should be evaluated independently.
° The Assessment Team meets daily with the OSC participants to review preliminary results.
° Daily sessions are intended to iteratively validate the observations and ultimately inform the final scores of
the in-scope practices.
° Generate and deliver preliminary recommended findings.
° Provides a summarization of all practice MET/NOT MET scores indicating the extent to which the in -scope
practice, control, or related procedures and policies meet the intent of CMMC practices.
° Provides opportunity for feedback by and between the OSC and the Lead Assessor/CCA /CCP.
e Must be presented prior to Final Findings.
° During these sessions, OSC participants are given the opportunity to:
eases =)
a ae
° Verify the Assessment Team’s understanding of the practices to validate
preliminary results.
¢ Provide context for Evidence that has been reviewed.
¢ Provide additional Evidence for the Assessment Team to review.
ven
Figure 7-31: CMMC Assessments are comprehensive and all Assessment Objectives must be
fulfilled in order to achieve a MET score for a practice.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 376 ---
364 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Steps Used by CCPs and CCAs to Assess the Assessment
Objectives
e Use the Assessment Guide to review the practice.
° Follow these steps, for each assessment objective (AO) for every practice:
1.
Identify the evidence you have or need to collect.
2.
Mark the assessment methods.
3.
Determine if the Evidence is adequate and sufficient.
° Does the evidence provided meet the minimum intent of the AO? If so, how?
° Does a specific policy or procedure exist that tells how to meet this objective? If so, how?
e Has the OSC provided any other evidence that the OSC is meeting the AO?
. Determine if there are any indicators that adversely impact satisfying the AO.
e Are there any areas where the OSC is not meeting the AO? If so, name the areas.
e After reviewing all the evidence, are there any areas of conflict? Do these conflicts require
clarification, or do they adversely impact the AO?
Determine the assessment finding - MET, NOT MET, or NA.
. Write a rationale for your finding.
Figure 7-32: For each practice, CCPs and CCAs must assess every Assessment Objective (AO).
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 377 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 365
Assessment Findings
MET NOT MET NOT APPLICABLE
(N/A)
The OSC successfully meets all objectives for the practice.
For each practice marked MET, a CCP or a CCA:
° Includes statements that indicate the response conforms to all objectives.
° Documents the appropriate evidence to support the response.
The OSC has not met all objectives for the practice.
For each practice marked NOT MET, a CCP or a CCA:
° Includes explanation why the contractor does not conform fully to all objectives.
° Documents the appropriate evidence.
The practice does not apply for the assessment.
Lead Assessor is responsible for verifying that the CMMC practice is truly not applicable.
For each practice marked N/A:
e Lead Assessor explains why the practice does not apply to the contractor.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 7-33: CCPs and CCAs will score practices as either MET, NOT MET, or N/A.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 378 ---
366 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Inheritance
¢ An OSC can inherit practice objectives.
e Adequate evidence must be provided that:
¢ Another entity, such as an External Service Provider (ESP) performs the practice objective.
° The Assessment Objectives are applicable to assets in scope.
e The Assessment Objectives are MET.
e Inheritance must be provable for each related system in scope.
° Evidence is evaluated by the CMMC Assessment Team.
° CCA indicates how they were evaluated and from whom they are inherited.
° Provided evidence must prove full compliance.
e Must meet all objectives for the practice.
Practice
Objectives
Figure 7-34: It is up to the OSC to demonstrate inheritance for each system in scope.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 379 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 367
The CCP Role in the Assessment Process
° Evaluate compliance at the objective level for all | ° Evaluate all designated mechanisms for
mechanisms in scope. compliance at the objective level.
* Bring all mechanisms in scope into compliance. * Document conformity for Lead Assessor review.
° Perform a Gap Analysis/Evidence Validation. ° Augment the Lead Assessor/CCA in
* Generate evidence to be examined. performance of the Assessment.
e Identify people to be interviewed.
° Periodically test mechanisms to ensure compliance.
= |
Provide Consulting
Work for the OSC
Ss
Work on the
Assessment Team
Figure 7-35: CCPs will have different roles during an Assessment depending on whether they are
a consultant or a member of the Assessment Team.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 380 ---
368 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Usage of the Assessment Guide for Assessment Preparation
Use the Assessment Guide during OSC preparation for an assessment to:
° Conduct a Gap Analysis.
¢ Fix identified gaps.
* Conduct an Evidence Validation.
¢ Remember that objectives are written for the CCA.
¢ Flip the verb-noun pairs to make the statement directive.
° For example, for IA.L2-3.5.3 “privileged accounts are identified” becomes “identify privileged accounts.”
¢ All Assessment Objectives must be fully met for the practice to be compliant/conformant.
° For example, to be compliant with IA.L2-3.5.3, you must meet a, b, c, and d.
Privileged Identify
accounts are privileged
identified accounts
Figure 7-36: You can flip the verb-noun pairs from the Assessment Guides to help you make a
task list to prepare an OSC for a formal Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 381 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 369
Guidelines for Implementing the CMMC Criteria and
Assessment Practices
° CMMC Assessments are comprehensive assessments at all levels.
° CMMC Level 1 Self-Assessments follow the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1.
° Which is based on the NIST SP 800-171A.
° CMMC Level 2 Practices are evaluated per the defined Objectives, Methods, and Objects in the
CMMC Assessment Guide—Level 2.
e The Lead Assessor/CCA has the authority to:
° Evaluate any practice and system or system of type in scope.
° Interview and meet with any people involved with the related practice or system management.
° Each Objective must be satisfied based on Evidence from Interviews, Examination, or Testing.
e Each Assessment Method can be used multiple times per Objective.
¢ The Lead Assessor/CCA determines the number and type of Evidence that are needed.
* Objective Assessments for each practice/system in scope roll -up at the lowest level of
compliance/conformity.
e If System X is non-conformant on one requirement objective while the other systems
are conformant, then the overall Objective is evaluated as Fail.
° If any of the rolled-up Objectives are scored as Fail, then the requirement Fails.
Figure 7-37: Every Assessment Objective for each practice must be satisfied by Evidence.
Notes
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 382 ---
370 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 7-2
Using the CMMC Assessment Guides
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\ModelOverview_V2.0_FINAL2_ 20211202 _508.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\AG_Levell_V2.0_FinalDraft_20211210_508.pdf
Scenario
For a CMMC Assessment, the OSC must be prepared to demonstrate how they are meeting each
requirement they are responsible for. If the requirement is not applicable, the OSC should be able to
justify that as well. So to prepare for the Assessment, you must determine what the requirements are
for the particular Level the OSC is targeting. In this case, Rudison is looking to obtain CMMC
Certification at Level 1, so you will refer to the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification and
CMMC Self-Assessment Guide — Level 1 documents to determine what requirements Rudison
must meet.
1. Examine the type of guidance provided by the CMMC Model documentation.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named
ModelOverview_V2.0_FINAL2_20211202_508.pdf.
b) Navigate to the Table of Contents and examine what's contained in the document.
There is an Introduction and a Summary, but the bulk of the document is the information on the
CMMC Model itself. This middle section provides some background on the concept of a Maturity
Model, and provides an overview. The remainder covers the model's levels, domains, and practices.
c) Navigate to the section on CMMC Practices.
d) Scroll through this section until you find the List of Practices.
2. What is the first CMMC Level 1 practice in the list?
3. Read the description of AC.L1-3.1.1. Does this give you enough information
to determine if this is being performed in a client’s environment?
4. Close the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification Model Overview
document.
5. Examine the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide — Level 1 document.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named
AG_Level1_V2.0_FinalDraft_20211210_508.pdf.
b) Review the Self-Assessment and Compliance and CMMC-Specific Terms sections.
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 383 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 371
6. Why do you think these terms were identified as being important to Level 1
self-assessment?
7. Examine the type of guidance provided for the practice descriptions.
a)
b)
Referring to the Table of Contents, navigate to the section on Access Control (AC).
Under the sections for Level 1 AC Practices, examine the documentation provided on AC.L1-3.1.1.
This section provides:
¢ The Assessment Objectives for this practice.
¢ Potential assessment methods and objects.
¢ Discussion and further discussion on assessing the practice, including examples.
¢ A\list of key references.
Examine the Assessment Objectives for AC.L1-3.1.1.
There are six different Assessment Objectives. All must be met in order for the practice to be
marked as compliant.
Examine the Potential Assessment Methods and Objects for AC.L1-3.1.1.
For each of the three assessment methods, it lists suggestions for artifacts to examine, possible job
titles and common tasks of people to interview, and processes and mechanisms you might observe
as tests.
Examine the Discussion and Further Discussion sections for AC.L1-3.1.1.
This provides some additional help. It tells you that you are expected to: control who can use
computers and who can log on to the company network; limit the services and devices, like printers,
that can be accessed by company computers; and, set up your system so that unauthorized users
and devices cannot get on the company network.
8. If you have lingering questions about AC.L1-3.1.1, where can you find more
information to help you better understand the concepts in this practice?
9, Leave the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide — Level 1 document open.
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 384 ---
372 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 7-3
Using the CMMC Supplemental Documents
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\AG_Levell_ V2.0 Final _20211210.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\NIST.SP.800-17112.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf
Before You Begin
The CMMC Self-Assessment Guide Level | is open on the page for AC.L1-3.1.1.
Scenario
You are a CCP working as a consultant with a client who doesn't have a lot of IT experience. You
decide to explore the supplemental documents that support CMMC to see if they provide any
additional explanation for implementing the CMMC practices.
1. Find the NIST SP 800-171 requirement from the key references for CMMC
practice AC.L1-3.1.1.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named C:\093200Data
\CMMC Resources\NIST.SP.800-1711r2. pdf.
b) Navigate to page 22 to view Access Control requirement 3.1.1.
c) Arrange your screen so that you can see the two documents side-by-side.
Notice how the requirement description for 3.1.1 is the same as AC.L1-3.1.1 and the Discussion
paragraphs are also the same.
2. Determine the security controls that this requirement maps to.
a) Inthe NIST document, select the 3.1.1 link to view Appendix D.
Appendix D maps the NIST SP 800-171 requirements to relevant security controls in NIST SP
800-53 and ISO/IEC 27001. These tables are only for information and do not convey any additional
security requirements.
3. What three security controls from NIST SP 800-53 are listed for the Access
Control requirement 3.1.1?
4. Review the NIST SP 800-53 security controls.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named C:\093200Data
\CMMC Resources\NIST.SP.800-53r5. pdf.
b) Navigate to page 46 to look at the first mapped security control.
5. How might you use this information with your client?
6. Close all of the PDF files.
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence | Topic B
--- PAGE 385 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 373
Summary
In this lesson, you learned about the Assessment Methods used to assess Evidence and the
importance of collecting adequate and sufficient Evidence to prove the OSC has met the standard
for each CMMC practice. You also learned how to use the Assessment Guides to assess practices.
You learned that each practice has specific Assessment Objectives that must all be met for that
practice to be marked as MET during the CMMC Assessment. You learned that the Discussion and
Further Discussion sections provide additional information to guide an OSC in preparing for an
Assessment and also help the Assessment Team Members who are participating in an Assessment.
These sections provide examples that are descriptive not prescriptive. Each OSC will determine the
best way for their environment to meet the Assessment Objectives.
Which section of the Assessment Guide structure will be the most helpful in
guiding your work as CCP?
What do you think will be the most challenging part of assessing practices?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
= peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 7: Determining and Assessing Evidence |
--- PAGE 386 ---

--- PAGE 387 ---
Implementing and
Evaluating Level 1
Lesson Time: 2 hours, 55 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you have been introduced to preparing for the Assessment process by collecting
and assessing Evidence, you are ready to evaluate the Organization Seeking Certification
(OSC) against the CMMC Level | requirements. CMMC Level | is designed for those
companies who handle Federal Contract Information (FCI), and must secure that sensitive
data in order to accurately attest to their compliance with CMMC Level | practices. In this
lesson, you will learn about the Level 1 practices, how to determine an OSC's Assessment
readiness with a Gap Analysis, and assess the Level 1 practices.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Identify the domains and practices for basic cyber hygiene at CMMC Level 1.
¢ Perform aCMMC Level | gap analysis.
¢ Assess the CMMC Level | practices.
--- PAGE 388 ---
376 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPICA
Identify CMMC Level 1 Domains and Practices
Before diving into the details of the CMMC Level 1 requirements, it's helpful to understand the
connections between the FAR regulation for FCI and CMMC Level 1. In this topic, you will be
introduced to the 17 practices in the six domains that must be met for Level | certification.
Equivalency of FAR 52.204-21 and CMMC Level 1
Pe
as
viii.
(Limit physical access to organizational “= } > PE.L1-3.10.1] Limit physical access to organizational
information systems, equipment, and the information systems, equipment, and the
respective operating environments to respective operating environments to
\ authorized individuals. authorized individuals.
( Escort visitors and monitor visitor activityy=TM=—=)>PE. L1-3.10.3 (Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity. _)
maintain audit logs of physical access;
E. L1-3.10.4 (Maintain audit logs of physical access. +)
Land control and manage physical access devices |»PE. L1-3.10.5 (Control and manage physical access devices. )
Figure 8-1: As shown, the FAR 52.204-21 clause ix was broken into three Level 1 practices in
CMMC. All of the other FAR 52.204-21 clauses have a one-to-one match with a CMMC Level 1
practice.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 389 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 377
FAR 52.204-21 vs. CMMC - Importance to a CCP
¢ FAR 52.204-21 is incorporated into most government contracts.
° Even if left out, it is likely to be read into the contract under the Christian Doctrine.
¢ Submitting an invoice equals an attestation contractor meets requirements of contract.
¢ DoD believes a Level 1 certification should be straightforward for contractors.
° However, some small businesses claim a Level 1 certification will require additional investments in
security.
* OSCs need to understand potential implications of such assertions.
* Opens them up to False Claims Act claims, potential debarment, business reputation harm, and more.
* DoD assumes that OSCs with current contracts will have an easy time with Level 1.
¢ Do a gap analysis to be sure and if necessary, make changes.
Figure 8-2: FAR 52.204-21 is incorporated into most government contracts already, so the DoD's
position is that CMMC Level 1 should be straightforward for most of its contractors.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 390 ---
378 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Level 1 Domains
Access Control
Medi System and
edia S168 Communications
Protection Protection
System and
Information
Integrity
Identification ;
and Physical
Authentication Protection
Figure 8-3: Level 1 includes 17 practices in six of the 14 CMMC domains.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 391 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 379
AC.L1-3.1.1 Authorized Access Control
AC Practices pecee went
Objectives
Access Control
Practice ID AC.L1-3.1.1 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf of authorized
users, or devices (including other information systems).
[a] authorized users are identified;
[b] processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified;
[c] devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified;
[d] system access is limited to authorized users;
[e] system access is limited to processes acting on behalf of authorized users; and
[f] system access is limited to authorized devices (including other systems).
More AC practices =>
Figure 8-4: At Level 1, there are four practices in the Access Control domain which involve
knowing who is accessing your networks. AC.L1-3.1.1 addresses authorized access control.
Notes
Key References
FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.1
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.1.1
NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.1.1
Assessment Methods for AC.L1-3.1.1
Examine: Access control policy; procedures addressing account management; system security
plan; system design documentation; system configuration settings and associated documentation;
list of active system accounts and the name of the individual associated with each account;
notifications or records of recently transferred, separated, or terminated employees; list of
conditions for group and role membership; list of recently disabled system accounts along with
the name of the individual associated with each account; access authorization records; account
management compliance reviews; system monitoring records; system audit logs and records; list
of devices and systems authorized to connect to organizational systems; other relevant
documents or records.
Interview: Personnel with account management responsibilities; system or network
administrators; personnel with information security responsibilities.
Test: Organizational processes for managing system accounts; mechanisms for implementing
account management.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 392 ---
380 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
AC.L1-3.1.2 Transaction & Function Control
AC Practices pecee smelt
Objectives
Access Control
Practice ID AC.L1-3.1.2 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions that authorized users
are permitted to execute.
[a] the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute are
defined; and
[b] system access is limited to the defined types of transactions and functions for authorized users.
More AC practices =»
Figure 8-5: AC.L1-3.1.2 addresses transaction and function access control.
Notes
Key References
FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.1i
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.1.2
NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.1.2
Assessment Methods for AC.L1-3.1.2
Examine: Access control policy; procedures addressing access enforcement; system security
plan; system design documentation; list of approved authorizations including remote access
authorizations; system audit logs and records; system configuration settings and associated
documentation; other relevant documents or records.
Interview: Personnel with access enforcement responsibilities; system or network
administrators; personnel with information security responsibilities; system developers.
Test: Mechanisms implementing access control policy.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 393 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 381
AC.L1-3.1.20 External Connections
AC Practices SSS SUS
Objectives
Access Control
Practice ID AC.L1-3.1.20 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Verify and control/limit connections to and use of external information systems.
[a] connections to external systems are identified;
[b] the use of external systems is identified;
[c] connections to external systems are verified;
[d] the use of external systems is verified;
[e] connections to external systems are controlled/limited; and
[f] the use of external systems is controlled/limited.
More AC practices =>
Figure 8-6: AC.L1-3.1.20 addresses access control of external connections.
Notes
Key References
* FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.i01
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.1.20
Assessment Methods for AC.L1-3.1.20
¢ Examine: Access control policy; procedures addressing the use of external systems; terms and
conditions for external systems; system security plan; list of applications accessible from external
systems; system configuration settings and associated documentation; system connection or
processing agreements; account management documents; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with responsibilities for defining terms and conditions for use of external
systems to access organizational systems; system or network administrators; personnel with
information security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Mechanisms implementing terms and conditions on use of external systems.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 394 ---
382 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
AC.L1-3.1.22 Control Public Information
AC Practices eee IG
Objectives
AC Access Control
Practice ID AC.L1-3.1.22 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Control information posted or processed on publicly available information systems.
[a] individuals authorized to post or process information on publicly accessible systems are
identified;
[b] procedures to ensure FCI is not posted or processed on publicly accessible systems are
identified;
[c] a review process is in place prior to posting of any content to publicly accessible systems;
[d] content on publicly accessible systems is reviewed to ensure that it does not include FCI; and
[e] mechanisms are in place to remove and address improper posting of FCI.
Figure 8-7: AC.L1-3.1.22 addresses access control of information posted or processed on
publicly accessible information systems.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.i1v
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.1.22
Assessment Methods for AC.L1-3.1.20
¢ Examine: Access control policy; procedures addressing publicly accessible content; system
security plan; list of users authorized to post publicly accessible content on organizational
systems; training materials and/or records; records of publicly accessible information reviews;
records of response to nonpublic information on public websites; system audit logs and records;
security awareness training records; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with responsibilities for managing publicly accessible information posted
on organizational systems; personnel with information security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Mechanisms implementing management of publicly accessible content.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 395 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 383
IA.L1-3.5.1 Identification
wee . 1A Practi Assessment
IA Identification Factices Objectives
and Authentication
Practice ID 1A.L1-3.5.1 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Identify information system users, processes acting on behalf of users, or devices.
[a] system users are identified;
[b] processes acting on behalf of users are identified; and
[c] devices accessing the system are identified.
More IA practices =>
Figure 8-8: At Level 1, there are two practices in the Identification and Authentication domain
which involve identifying authorized users and authenticating they are who they say they are.
|A.L1-3.5.1 focuses on identification of users, processes acting on behalf of users, or devices.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.v
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.5.1
¢ NIST SP 800-63-3
Assessment Methods for IA.L1-3.5.1
¢ Examine: Identification and authentication policy; procedures addressing user identification and
authentication; system security plan, system design documentation; system configuration settings
and associated documentation; system audit logs and records; list of system accounts; other
relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with system operations responsibilities; personnel with information
security responsibilities; system or network administrators; personnel with account management
responsibilities; system developers.
* Test: Organizational processes for uniquely identifying and authenticating users; mechanisms
supporting or implementing identification and authentication capability.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 396 ---
384 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
[A.L1-3.5.2 Authentication
Assessment
Identification Objectives
and Authentication
Practice ID 1IA.L1-3.5.2 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Authenticate (or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices, as a prerequisite to
allowing access to organizational information systems.
[a] the identity of each user is authenticated or verified as a prerequisite to system access;
[b] the identity of each process acting on behalf of a user is authenticated or verified as a
prerequisite to system access; and
[c] the identity of each device accessing or connecting to the system is authorized or verified as a
prerequisite to system access.
Figure 8-9: IA.L1-3.5.2 focuses on authenticating the identities of users, processes, or devices
allowed to access organizational information systems.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.vi
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.5.2
¢ NIST SP 800-63-3
Assessment Methods for [A.L1-3.5.2
¢ Examine: Identification and authentication policy; system security plan; procedures addressing
authenticator management; procedures addressing user identification and authentication; system
design documentation; list of system authenticator types; system configuration settings and
associated documentation; change control records associated with managing system
authenticators; system audit logs and records; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with authenticator management responsibilities; personnel with
information security responsibilities; system or network administrators.
¢ Test: Mechanisms supporting or implementing authenticator management capability.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 397 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 385
MP.L1-3.8.3 Media Disposal
Me Media Protection
Assessment
Objectives
Practice ID MP.L1-3.8.3 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Sanitize or destroy information system media containing Federal Contract Information before
disposal or release.
[a] system media containing FCI is sanitized or destroyed before disposal; and
[b] system media containing FCI is sanitized before it is released for reuse.
Figure 8-10: At Level 1, there is one practice, MP.L1-3.8.3, which involves sanitizing or
destroying IT media before disposal or release.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.vil
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.8.3
¢ NIST SP 800-88 R1
¢ NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.8.3
Assessment Methods for MP.L1-3.8.3
¢ Examine: System media protection policy; procedures addressing media sanitization and
disposal; applicable standards and policies addressing media sanitization; system security plan;
media sanitization records; system audit logs and records; system design documentation; system
configuration settings and associated documentation; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with media sanitization responsibilities; personnel with information
security responsibilities; system or network administrators.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for media sanitization; mechanisms supporting or implementing
media sanitization.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 398 ---
386 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
PE.L1-3.10.1 Limit Physical Access
PE Practices “Objectives
Physical Protection
Practice ID PE.L1-3.10.1 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Limit physical access to organizational information systems, equipment, and the respective
operating environments to authorized individuals.
[a] authorized individuals allowed physical access re identified;
[b] physical access to organizational systems is limited to authorized individuals;
[c] physical access to equipment is limited to authorized individuals; and
[d] physical access to operating environments is limited to authorized individuals.
More PE practices =>
Figure 8-11: At Level 1, there are four practices in the Physical Protection domain. PE.L1-3.10.1
addresses limiting physical access through technical and administrative measures.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.viii
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.10.1
¢ NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.10.1
Assessment Methods for PE.L1-3.10.1
¢ Examine: Physical and environmental protection policy; procedures addressing physical access
authorizations; system security plan; authorized personnel access list; authorization credentials;
physical access list reviews; physical access termination records and associated documentation;
other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with physical access authorization responsibilities; personnel with physical
access to system facility; personnel with information security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for physical access authorizations; mechanisms supporting or
implementing physical access authorizations.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 399 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 387
PE.L1-3.10.3 Escort Visitors
PE Practices “Oblccthee
Physical Protection )
Practice ID PE.L1-3.10.3 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity.
[a] visitors are escorted; and
[b] visitor activity is monitored.
More PE practices =>
Figure 8-12: PE.L1-3.10.3 addresses escorting visitors and monitoring their activity.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 Partial b.1.1x
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.10.3
Assessment Methods for PE.L1-3.10.3
¢ Examine: Physical and environmental protection policy; procedures addressing physical access
control; system security plan; physical access control logs or records; inventory records of
physical access control devices; system entry and exit points; records of key and lock
combination changes; storage locations for physical access control devices; physical access
control devices; list of security safeguards controlling access to designated publicly accessible
areas within facility; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with physical access control responsibilities; personnel with information
security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for physical access control; mechanisms supporting or
implementing physical access control; physical access control devices.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 400 ---
388 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
PE.L1-3.10.4 Physical Access Logs
Pe Physical Protection
Assessment
Level PE Practices
Objectives
1 4 10
Practice ID PE.L1-3.10.4 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Maintain audit logs of physical access.
[a] audit logs of physical access are maintained.
More PE practices =>
Figure 8-13: PE.L1-3.10.4 focuses on maintaining physical access logs.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 Partial b.1.ix
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.10.4
¢ NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.10.4
Assessment Methods for PE.L1-3.10.4
¢ Examine: Physical and environmental protection policy; procedures addressing physical access
control; system security plan; physical access control logs or records; inventory records of
physical access control devices; system entry and exit points; records of key and lock
combination changes; storage locations for physical access control devices; physical access
control devices; list of security safeguards controlling access to designated publicly accessible
areas within facility; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with physical access control responsibilities; personnel with information
security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for physical access control; mechanisms supporting or
implementing physical access control; physical access control devices.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 401 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 389
PE.L1-3.10.5 Manage Physical Access
PE Practices “Obicctee
Physical Protection
Practice ID Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
PE.L1-3.10.5 | Control and manage physical access devices.
[a] physical access devices are identified;
[b] physical access devices are controlled; and
[c] physical access devices are managed.
Figure 8-14: PE.L1-3.10.5 addresses controlling and managing physical access devices.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 Partial b.1.ix
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.10.5
Assessment Methods for PE.L1-3.10.5
¢ Examine: Physical and environmental protection policy; procedures addressing physical access
control; system security plan; physical access control logs or records; inventory records of
physical access control devices; system entry and exit points; records of key and lock
combination changes; storage locations for physical access control devices; physical access
control devices; list of security safeguards controlling access to designated publicly accessible
areas within facility; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: Personnel with physical access control responsibilities; personnel with information
security responsibilities.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for physical access control; mechanisms supporting or
implementing physical access control; physical access control devices.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 402 ---
390 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
SC.L1-3.13.1 Boundary Protection
System and
SC Communications
Protection
SC Practices pees ireuL
Objectives
Practice ID SC.L1-3.13.1 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Monitor, control, and protect organizational communications (i.e., information transmitted or
received by organizational information systems) at the external boundaries and key internal
boundaries of the information systems.
[a] the external system boundary is defined;
[b] key internal system boundaries are defined;
[c] communications are monitored at the external system boundary;
[d] communications are monitored at key internal boundaries;
[e] communications are controlled at the external system boundary;
[f] communications are controlled at key internal boundaries;
[g] communications are protected at the external system boundary; and
[h] communications are protected at key internal boundaries.
More SC practices =>
Figure 8-15: At Level 1, there are two practices in the System and Communications Protection
domain. SC.L1-3.13.1 involves controlling and protecting the system boundary.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.x
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.13.1
¢ NIST SP 800-41
¢ NIST SP 800-125B
Assessment Methods for SC.L1-3.13.1
¢ Examine: System and communications protection policy; procedures addressing boundary
protection; system security plan; list of key internal boundaries of the system; system design
documentation; boundary protection hardware and software; enterprise security architecture
documentation; system audit logs and records; system configuration settings and associated
documentation; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; system developers; personnel with boundary protection responsibilities.
¢ Test: Mechanisms implementing boundary protection capability.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 403 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 391
SC.L1-3.13.5 Public Access System Separation
System and
SC Communications
Protection
SC Practices poses trent
Objectives
Practice ID SC.L1-3.13.5 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Implement subnetworks for publicly accessible system components that are physically or logically
separated from internal networks.
[a] publicly accessible system components are identified; and
[b] subnetworks for publicly accessible system components are physically or logically separated
from internal networks.
Figure 8-16: SC.L1-3.13.5 focuses on implementing subnetworks for publicly accessible system
components that are physically or logically separated from internal networks.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.xi
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.13.5
¢ NIST SP 800-41
¢ NIST SP 800-125B
Assessment Methods for SC.L1-3.13.5
¢ Examine: System and communications protection policy; procedures addressing boundary
protection; system security plan; list of key internal boundaries of the system; system design
documentation; boundary protection hardware and software; system configuration settings and
associated documentation; enterprise security architecture documentation; system audit logs and
records; other relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; system developers; personnel with boundary protection responsibilities.
¢ Test: Mechanisms implementing boundary protection capability.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic A
--- PAGE 404 ---
392 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
S!I.L1-3.14.1 Flaw Remediation
System and
Information
Integrity
SI Practices prea olen
Objectives
Practice ID S1.L1-3.14.1 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Identify, report, and correct information and information system flaws in a timely manner.
[a] the time within which to identify system flaws is specified;
[b] system flaws are identified within the specified time frame;
[c] the time within which to report systems flaws is specified;
[d] system flaws are reported within the specified time frame;
[e] the time within which to correct system flaws is specified; and
[f] system flaws are corrected within the specified time frame.
More SI practices =>
Figure 8-17: At Level 1, there are four practices in the System and Information Integrity domain.
SI.L1-3.14.1 addresses remediating flaws in a timely manner.
Notes
Key References
FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.xii
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.14.1
NIST SP 800-40
Assessment Methods for SI.L1-3.14.1
Examine: System and information integrity policy; procedures addressing flaw remediation;
procedures addressing configuration management; system security plan; list of flaws and
vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system; list of recent security flaw remediation actions
performed on the system (e.g., list of installed patches, service packs, hot fixes, and other
software updates to correct system flaws); test results from the installation of software and
firmware updates to correct system flaws; installation/change control records for security-
relevant software and firmware updates; other relevant documents or records.
Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; personnel installing, configuring, and maintaining the system; personnel with
responsibility for flaw remediation; personnel with configuration management responsibility.
Test: Organizational processes for identifying, reporting, and correcting system flaws;
organizational process for installing software and firmware updates; mechanisms supporting or
implementing reporting, and correcting system flaws; mechanisms supporting or implementing
testing software and firmware updates.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 405 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 393
SI.L1-3.14.2 Malicious Code Protection
System and SI Practices ‘Ohiactivee
Information )
Integrity
Practice ID SI.L1-3.14.2 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
Provide protection from malicious code at appropriate locations within organizational information
systems.
[a] designated locations for malicious code protection are identified; and
[b] protection from malicious code at designated locations is provided.
More SI practices =»
Figure 8-18: SI.L1-3.14.2 focuses on providing protection from malicious code.
Notes
Key References
¢ FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.xiti
¢ NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.14.2
¢ NIST SP 800-83
Assessment Methods for SI.L1-3.14.2
¢ Examine: System and information integrity policy; configuration management policy and
procedures; procedures addressing malicious code protection; records of malicious code
protection updates; malicious code protection mechanisms; system security plan; system
configuration settings and associated documentation; record of actions initiated by malicious
code protection mechanisms in response to malicious code detection; scan results from malicious
code protection mechanisms; system design documentation; system audit logs and records; other
relevant documents or records.
¢ Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; personnel installing, configuring, and maintaining the system; personnel with
responsibility for malicious code protection; personnel with configuration management
responsibility.
¢ Test: Organizational processes for employing, updating, and configuring malicious code
protection mechanisms; organizational process for addressing false positives and resulting
potential impact; mechanisms supporting or implementing employing, updating, and configuring
malicious code protection mechanisms; mechanisms supporting or implementing malicious code
scanning and subsequent actions.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 406 ---
394 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
S|.L1-3.14.4 Update Malicious Code Protection
System and SI Practices Assessment
Information
c Objectives
Integrity
Practice ID SI. L1-3.14.4 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
| Update malicious code protection mechanisms when new releases are available.
[a] malicious code protection mechanisms are updated when new releases are available.
More SI practices =>
Figure 8-19: SI.L1-3.14.4 addresses updating malicious code protection mechanisms when new
releases are available.
Notes
Key References
FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.xiv
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.14.4
Assessment Methods for SI.L1-3.14.4
Examine: System and information integrity policy; configuration management policy and
procedures; procedures addressing malicious code protection; malicious code protection
mechanisms; records of malicious code protection updates; system security plan; system design
documentation; system configuration settings and associated documentation; scan results from
malicious code protection mechanisms; record of actions initiated by malicious code protection
mechanisms in response to malicious code detection; system audit logs and records; other
relevant documents or records.
Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; personnel installing, configuring, and maintaining the system; personnel with
responsibility for malicious code protection; personnel with configuration management
responsibility.
Test: Organizational processes for employing, updating, and configuring malicious code
protection mechanisms; organizational process for addressing false positives and resulting
potential impact; mechanisms supporting or implementing malicious code protection
mechanisms (including updates and configurations); mechanisms supporting or implementing
malicious code scanning and subsequent actions.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 407 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 395
SI.L1-3.14.5 System & File Scanning
System and
Information
Integrity
SI Practices Assessment
Objectives
Practice ID SI. L1-3.14.5 Practice Statement and Assessment Objectives
| Perform periodic scans of the information system and real-time scans of files from external
sources as files are downloaded, opened, or executed.
[a] the frequency for malicious code scans is identified;
[b] malicious code scans are performed with the defined frequency; and
[c] real-time malicious code scans of files for external sources as files are downloaded, opened, or
executed are performed.
Figure 8-20: SI.L1-3.14.5 focuses on performing scans of information systems and files from
external sources.
Notes
Key References
FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.xv
NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2 3.14.5
Assessment Methods for SI.L1-3.14.5
Examine: System and information integrity policy; configuration management policy and
procedures; procedures addressing malicious code protection; malicious code protection
mechanisms; records of malicious code protection updates; system security plan; system design
documentation; system configuration settings and associated documentation; scan results from
malicious code protection mechanisms; record of actions initiated by malicious code protection
mechanisms in response to malicious code detection; system audit logs and records; other
relevant documents or records.
Interview: System or network administrators; personnel with information security
responsibilities; personnel installing, configuring, and maintaining the system; personnel with
responsibility for malicious code protection; personnel with configuration management
responsibility.
Test: Organizational processes for employing, updating, and configuring malicious code
protection mechanisms; organizational process for addressing false positives and resulting
potential impact; mechanisms supporting or implementing malicious code protection
mechanisms (including updates and configurations); mechanisms supporting or implementing
malicious code scanning and subsequent actions.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 408 ---
396 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 8-1
Identifying CMMC Level 1 Domains and
Practices
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\ModelOverview_V2.0_FINAL2_ 20211202 508.pdf
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\AG_Levell_V2.0_ FinalDraft_20211210_ 508.pdf
Scenario
You are familiarizing yourself with the Level 1 practices.
1. Open the CMMC Model Overview document.
a) Navigate to the folder C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources and open the PDF file named
ModelOverview_V2.0_FINAL2_20211202_508.
b) Navigate to Section 2.4 CMMC Practices.
2. How many domains are involved in a Level 1 Assessment? Where did you
find the answer?
3. Against how many practices is an OSC evaluated in a Level 1 Assessment?
Where did you find the answer?
4. CMMC Level 1's practice requirements are the equivalent of what other
regulation's safeguarding requirements? Where did you find the answer?
5. Review a few practices in the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide — Level 1.
a) Navigate to the folder C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources and open the PDF file named
AG_Level1_V2.0_FinalDraft_20211210_508.
b) Review a few practices, paying special attention to the Assessment Objectives, Discussion, and
Further Discussion sections.
6. Exit the application you are using to view the PDF.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | TopicA
--- PAGE 409 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 397
TOPIC B
Perform a CMMC Level 1 Gap Analysis
In an earlier lesson, you identified how Federal Contract Information (FCI) flows within an
organization and the portions of the OSC environment are likely to be in scope for the Assessment
and Certification. Now you can analyze the in-scope systems and evaluate them against the CMMC
Level 1 practices to see where gaps exist.
CMME Level 1 Gap Analysis
fssifiiie sii
Establishing the Scope
Before you begin, inventory all the systems.
1. Catalog the sensitive information.
2. Determine how sensitive information moves.
1. Received from the government?
. Generated by OSC?
. Accessible to or shared with others?
. Who in OSC has access to it?
. Will sensitive information be sent to the
government?
3. Identify systems and enabling systems in scope.
ee scope has been established, the systems in
scope can be evaluated against the targeted
CMMC Level.
Figure 8-21: Once you have identified what is in scope, you can perform a Gap Analysis,
evaluating the systems in scope against the CMMC Level requirements.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 410 ---
398 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Gap Analysis
° Identify how FCI information flows, or will flow, in the organization and the involved systems.
* Evaluate the in-scope systems against each practice, guided by:
° CMMC Model Overview
° CMMC Assessment Guides
° Additional sources such as NIST SP 800-171A
+--gap-->
Figure 8-22: Use the CMMC Model and Assessment Guides to determine if there are any
requirements that have not been met in the OSC’s environment.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 411 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 39¢
Rudison In-Scope System Architecture
_ ae
ics
Office 365
EC2
AWS Elastic
Block Store
(EBS)
Windows Server 2020 Windows Server 2020
Github w/Azure AD Jenkins
Windows 10 Pro Windows 10 Pro Windows 10 Pro
VS 2019 VS 2019 VS 2019
AWS Relational
Database
Service
--- PAGE 412 ---
400 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Guidelines for Performing a Level 1 Gap Analysis
° Review all practices and their associated Assessment Objectives.
° Ensure all applicable practices and Assessment Objectives are currently being met.
* Document how the practices and Assessment Objectives are being met.
° Identify additional Evidence that will be used to demonstrate adoption of the practice.
° The more detailed the Evidence, the more confident the OSC will be in its Level 1 self -assessment.
Figure 8-24: Best practices when performing a CMMC Level 1 gap analysis.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 413 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 401
ACTIVITY 8-2
Identifying Information Needed for a Gap
Analysis
Data File
C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\CMMC L]1 Gap Analysis Tool.xlsx
Scenario
Now you will conduct a gap analysis of the Rudison cybersecurity program against the CMMC
Model's Level 1 requirements. Your materials include a CMMC Level 1 Gap Analysis Tool, an Excel
worksheet that lists each of the Assessment Objectives for the Level 1 practices. You use it to track
the implementation status of each objective, including notes that describe how the objective is met.
Those notes can include copies of, or links to, screen captures, external files, or other Evidence that
demonstrates how the objective is met.
1. Open the Gap Analysis Tool.
a) In your course data files at C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1, open the Excel
workbook file named CMMC L1 Gap Analysis Tool.xisx.
The gap analysis tool is an Excel workbook that lists each of the Assessment Objectives for the
various Level 1 practices. You use it to track the implementation status of each objective, including
notes that describe how the objective is met. Those notes can include copies of, or links to, screen
captures, external files, or other Evidence that demonstrates how the objective is met. This
workbook contains two worksheet tabs, Introduction and CMMC L1 Practices.
2. Save a copy of the file.
a) Save a copy of the workbook in the same folder, naming it My Rudison L1 Gap Analysis.xlsx.
“S| C: > 093200Data > Implementing and Evaluating Level 1
My Rudison L1 Gap Analysis
| Excel Workbook (*.xIsx)
More options...
3. Provide basic information about the organization and the gap analysis.
a) Inthe CMMC L1 Practices worksheet, select cell C2, and type Rudison Technologie® enter the
name of the OSC.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 414 ---
402 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
b) In cell E2, enter today's date.
B Cc D
CMMC Level 1 Gap Analysis Tool - Provided |
2 Organization Analyzed:|Rudison Technologies Date(s) Conducted: 21-Feb-22
CAGE Code: Analysis Team Members:
d)
e)
Select cell C3.
This is where you will enter the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code. The CAGE code:
* ls aunique, 5 character identifier that either NATO or the Defense Logistics Agency assigns to
organizations, depending on the organization's location.
¢ Allows for consistent identification of an organization as it grows or changes, such as through a
merger or acquisition.
* Can be obtained for a client who does not already have one by registering in the System for
Award Management, or SAM system at https://;www.SAM.gov or via the NCAGE Code Request
Tool at https://eportal.nspa.nato.int/AC135Public/CageTool/home.
Type AAAAAand press Enter.
For the purposes of this activity, you'll enter an imaginary CAGE code for Rudison.
Select cell E3.
This cell will contain the names of team members involved in the gap analysis. This typically
includes employees of the organization being analyzed, as well as members of the consulting
company that is leading the gap analysis.
Type Rudison: Jane Doe, Chris Deer, Mark Ray; Consultant: Alex Drop, [Your Name]
£3 vi & fe Rudison: Jane Doe, Chris Deer, Mark Ray; Consultant: Alex er
Include your own name
B (e D ie
CMMC Level 1 Gap Analysis Tool - Provided by the CMMC Inf ation Insi
2 fe] ly i] Jison Technologi |Date(s) Conducted: |21-Feb-22 SS
CAGE Code:|AAAAA eas Team Members: Jrudison Jane Doe, Chris Deer, Mark Ray; Consultant: Alex Dro (>)
The Rudison employees Jane, Chris, and Mark are all participating in the analysis, so they are
listed. You and Alex are members of the consulting company that is leading the gap analysis for
Rudison.
g) Incell C4, enter Collaboration Environment, Development Environment, End-user Equipment
C4 Vv ie Collaboration Environment, Development Environment, End-user Equipment
B C
CMMC Level 1 Gap Analys
2 Organization Analyzed:|Rudison Technologies D
3 CAGE Code:|AAAAA A
4 | Description of System(s) Analyzed:| Collaboration Environment, Development Environment, End-user Equipment
The systems you will analyze include the online collaboration environment, which in this case is the
Office 365 environment, the development environment, and the end-user equipment.
4. Orient yourself to the information you will record during the gap analysis.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 415 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 403
a) Examine the practices listed in column A, scrolling down as needed to see all of them.
A B (c D
u AC.L1-3.1.1 re ae en (a) authorized users are identified 8 ¥ (b) processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
authorized users,
5 processes acting on behalf |(c) devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified | Not Yet Analyzed
of authorized users, and Es ;
10 : é : (d) system access is limited to authorized users devices (including other se . .
11 seni (e) system access is limited to processes acting on behalf of authorized users Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
12 ¥ ; (f) system access is limited to authorized devices (including other systems) Not Yet Analyzed
AC.L1-3.1.2)| imit information system (a) the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to oe
3 access to the types of execute are defined ¥
transactions and functions
that authorized users are |(b) sy: ‘ i b) system access is limited to the defined types of transactions and functions for
YP’ Not Yet Analyzed
14 permitted to execute. authorized users
15| AC.L1-3.1.20 (a) connections to external systems are identified 16 17 18 20 Verify and control/limit (b) the use of external systems is identified connections to and use of |(c) connections to external systems are verified external information (d) the use of external systems is verified 19 systems. (e) connections to external systems are controlled/limited Not Yet Analyzed
(f) the use of external systems is controlled/limited Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
Not Yet Analyzed
AC.L1-3.1.22 a) individuals authorized to post or process information on publicly accessible
(a) , me P P P y Not Yet Analyzed
21 systems are identified
; ; b) procedures to ensure FCI is not posted or processed on publicly accessible
Control information (b) p : se P P P Y Not Yet Analyzed
22 systems are identified
a ene (c) a review process is in place prior to posting of any content to publicl
publicly accessible ; P P P P 8 Y P Y Not Yet Analyzed
23 . : accessible systems
information systems. : : : : :
(d) content on publicly accessible systems is reviewed to ensure that it does not
Each of the practices required for L1 are listed in column A, along with a description of each practice
in column B.
b) Scroll back to the top of the worksheet.
c) Examine the objectives listed for the AC.L1-3.1.1 practice in column C.
The objectives associated with each practice are listed next to the practice. In the example of
AC.L1-3.1.1, there are six associated practices (a through f).
d) Examine the implementation status cells in column D.
For each practice associated with a particular process, a cell is provided for you to note its
implementation status. Initially, all of these are set to "Not Yet Analyzed". You will change the value
in each of these cells as you perform the gap analysis.
e) Examine the Evidence cells in columns E, F, G, H, and I.
ofc a ee
=
Description of How Objective is Met or why Not
Applicable Examine Interview Test Date Met
Since the CMMC Assessment Team will be looking for Evidence to back up practices the OSC
claims to have implemented, these columns provide you a place to note the Evidence that exists,
how it was determined, and the date the practices were implemented.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 416 ---
404 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
f) Examine the columns provided to record Plans of Action and Milestones in columns K, L, M, and N.
K L M N
Resource Estimate (and
Responsible whether Funded, Milestones with Interim
Office/Organization | Unfunded, or Reallocated) Completion Dates Changes to Milestones
For any objectives that are not yet fully implemented, you should consider creating a Plan of Action
and corresponding Milestones, which you can record in these columns. The POA&M portion of the
worksheet is based on guidance from NIST SP 800-53, specifically CA-5 and PM-4. To use it, you
list the organization responsible for implementing the objective, the estimated resources needed to
implement the objective, and a series of projected milestones that are to be achieved along the path
to implementation. You should also track any changes to those milestones, such as acceleration of
the projected implementation timelines.
Note: To be clear, a POA&M is not explicitly required at Level 1. However,
_ using one as part of your gap analysis gives the organization's management a
‘tf concrete, structured view into the steps needed to achieve Level 1
~ certification, and the creation of a POA&M is considered a best practice.
Therefore, you are strongly encouraged to create one.
5. Save the workbook and leave it open.
a) Select File+Save.
b) Minimize the Excel application window.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 417 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 405
ACTIVITY 8-3
Analyzing Technical Cybersecurity Controls
Data Files
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\AG_Levell_V2.0_FinalDraft_20211210_508.pdf
C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\Rudison\EmpList.xlsx
Before You Begin
My Rudison L1 Gap Analysis.xlsx is open in Excel, in a minimized window.
Scenario
You are preparing to perform a gap analysis for Rudison's implementation of Level | practices. You
have looked for guidance from the CMMC documentation. While you would normally analyze all 17
Level 1 practices in the Rudison environment, to save class time, you will focus on just the technical
practices listed below.
¢ AC.L1-3.1.1 — Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf of
authorized users, or devices (including other information systems).
¢ AC.L1-3.1.2 — Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions that
authorized users are permitted to execute.
You will begin by looking at AC.L1-3.1.1. In the Rudison example, this practice provides a typical
example of cybersecurity controls you might need to evaluate.
1. Refer to the Assessment Guide to determine the assessment criteria for
AC.L1-3.1.1.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources folder, and open the file named
AG_Level1_V2.0_FinalDraft_20211210_508.pdf.
This PDF contains the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide — Level 1, Version 2.0.
b) Locate the page that contains the assessment criteria for AC.L1-3.1.1.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 418 ---
406 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
c) Examine the first of the six objectives listed for AC.L1-3.1.1.
Access Control (AC)
AC.L1-3.1.1 - AUTHORIZED ACCESS CONTROL
Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf of
authorized users, or devices (including other information systems).
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] authorized users are identified;
[b] processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified;
[c] devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified;
[d] system access is limited to authorized users;
[e] system access is limited to processes acting on behalf of authorized users; and
[f] system access is limited to authorized devices (including other systems).
POTENTIAL ASSESSMENT METHODS AND OBJECTS [NIST SP 800-171A]
Examine
[SELECT FROM: Access control policy: procedures addressing account management: system
When assessors evaluate whether the AC.L1-3.1.1 practice is met, among other things, they must
determine whether authorized users are identified.
2. Get guidance on how to determine whether authorized users are identified.
a) Scroll down, if necessary, so you can view the Potential Assessment Considerations for
AC.L1-3.1.1.
b) Observe the first consideration in this section.
(« Potential Assessment Considerations
Is a list of authorized users maintained that defines their identities and roles [a] 2)
e Are account requests authorized before system access is granted [d,e,f]?*
4 NIST Handbook 162 Section 3.1.1
¢ Regarding the users' home and mobile devices, you know that they require a username and
password to gain access to the device.
* Regarding the development and collaboration environments, you'll have to determine how you
can prove that access is limited to only authorized users. The Potential Assessment Methods
and Objectives section might provide some useful ideas for you to do this.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 419 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 407
c) Scroll up, if necessary, so you can see the Potential Assessment Methods and Objects [NIST SP
800-171A] section for AC.L1-3.1.1.
POTENTIAL ASSESSMENT METHODS AND OBJECTS [NIST SP 800-171A]
Examine
[SELECT FROM: Access control policy; procedures addressing account management; system
security plan; system design documentation; system configuration settings and associated
documentation; list of active system accounts and the name of the individual associated with
each account; notifications or records of recently transferred, separated, or terminated
employees; list of conditions for group and role membership; list of recently disabled system
accounts along with the name of the individual associated with each account; access
authorization records; account management compliance reviews; system monitoring
records; system audit logs and records; list of devices and systems authorized to connect to
organizational systems; other relevant documents or records].
Interview
[SELECT FROM: Personnel with account management responsibilities; system or network
administrators; personnel with information security responsibilities].
Test
[SELECT FROM: Organizational processes for managing system accounts; mechanisms for
implementing account management].
oO
3. Based on the ideas listed in this section of the Assessment Guide, what
methods and objects might you use to prove that access to the development
and collaboration environments is limited to only authorized users?
4. Open the Employee List.
a) Open C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\Rudison\EmpList.xlsx.
b) Review the file.
5. Document Rudison's implementation status for Objective A of AC.L1-3.1.1.
a) Restore the Excel application window.
The My Rudison L1 Gap Analysis.xlsx workbook is still open in the application, and the CMMC L1
Practices worksheet tab is selected.
b) Select cell D7.
Initially, this status has been set to Not Yet Analyzed.
c) Select the drop-down list arrow to the right of the selected cell.
Several status options are shown in a drop-down list.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 420 ---
408 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
d) Select Fully Implemented.
D
Des
Implementation Status |Apr
Not Yet Analyzed 4
Fully Implemented
1] Implementation Bequn
Implementation Planned
Not Yet Addressed
H Not Applicable
Because you can demonstrate that this objective is being met, it is appropriate to select “Fully
Implemented” from the drop-down.
e) In cell E7, enter Employee list
f) In cell F7, enter C:\Rudison\EmpList.xlsx
This is the path to the employee list.
g) In cell 17, enter today's date.
6. Referring to the Assessment Guide document, review Objective B.
a) Return to the Assessment Guide document.
b) Scroll up, if necessary to see the list of AC.L1-3.1.1 Assessment Objectives again.
The next objective for AC.L1-3.1.1 is to determine if "processes acting on behalf of authorized users
are identified".
7. The processes referred to in this objective include, for example, any
processes handling automatic updates of software in the system. Each such
process should be associated with the user who authorized the process to run
and should be tracked. So, what does this mean?
8. Based on the information provided, do we know all of the processes running
in the Rudison systems?
9. Complete the implementation status for Objective B.
a) Return to the Excel application window, and in cell D8, select Not Yet Addressed.
A B Cc D
5
6 Practice Practice Description Objectives (from CMMC Level 1 Assessment Guide and NIST SP 800-1714). Determine if: Description of Ho
Impl ion Status |Applicabl
u AC.L1-3.1.1 gauss ; (a) authorized users are identified Fully Implemented Employee list
imi acce: A Fs 5 =
8 id re eee (b) processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified Not Yet Addressed M
authorized users, processes
3 acting on behalf of (c) devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified Not Yet Analyzed
= authorized users, and So EAS m .
The objective has been analyzed, but not yet addressed. The “Description of How Objective is Met”
and “Date Met” fields would remain blank at this point.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 421 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 409
10.Referring to the Assessment Guide document, review Objective C.
a) Return to the Assessment Guide document, and examine the next objective.
Objective C is "devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified”.
11.Has Rudison identified the devices and other systems authorized to connect
to the system?
12.Complete the implementation status for Objective C.
a) In the Excel workbook, in cell D9, select Not Yet Addressed.
13.Identify the plans of action and milestones for Objective C.
a) Select cell K9.
This is where you would specify who is responsible for the actions needed to address the gap.
b) Type Jen, Chris and Mark home offices
In the case of the workstations for each Rudison user, you would likely list Jen, Chris, and Mark as
being responsible for their separate "organizations," since they each maintain their own home
networks.
c) Select cell L9.
d) Type Unfunded. 15 minutes each.
e) Select cell M9.
f) Type List all devices authorized to access each employees' home network and the collaboration and
development systems. [Date 2 days from now.]
K L M
Resource Estimate (and
Responsible whether Funded, Milestones with Interim
Office/Organization Unfunded, or Reallocated) Completion Dates
Jen, Chris and Mark home offices |Unfunded. 15 minutes each. List all devices authorized to
access each employees’ home
network and the collaboration and
development systems. [Date 2
days from now.]
Given the lack of identified processes acting on behalf of authorized users or devices authorized to
connect to the system, we know that the systems cannot be limiting access to those authorized
processes and devices. So, we can mark each of them as "Not Yet Addressed" and enter a POA&M
for addressing them.
14.In the Assessment Guide document, review Objective D.
a) Return to the Assessment Guide document.
b) Examine Objective D for AC.L1-3.1.1.
Objective D is "system access is limited to authorized users".
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 422 ---
410 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
15.How would you demonstrate that Rudison's systems limit access to
authorized users?
16.Evaluate Rudison's implementation of AC.L1-3.1.2.
a) In the Assessment Guide, locate the page that contains the Assessment criteria for AC.L1-3.1.2.
b) Examine the objectives listed for AC.L1-3.1.2.
AC.L1-3.1.2 - TRANSACTION & FUNCTION CONTROL
Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions that authorized
users are permitted to execute.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute
are defined; and
[b] system access is limited to the defined types of transactions and functions for
authorized users
c) Scan the other guidance provided under AC.L1-3.1.2 to consider how these objectives apply to
Rudison, how you might evaluate them, and how you might remediate if they are not already being
met.
17.Are either of the underlying objectives for AC.L1-3.1.2 met? If not, what would
be a good plan of action for meeting them?
18.Save your work and leave the workbook open.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 423 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 411
ACTIVITY 8-4
Analyzing Non-Technical Cybersecurity
Controls
Before You Begin
You've already opened My Rudison L1 Gap Analysis.xIsx in Excel and the CMMC Self-
Assessment Guide — Level 1 in your PDF reader.
Scenario
If an organization has FCI in a particular environment (e.g., an office, testing environment, or
equipment room), technical assets, and non-technical assets, they are expected to know which
individuals are allowed physical access to those environments or assets. Specific environments must
be limited to authorized employees, and access is controlled with badges, electronic locks, physical
key locks, etc. In addition, output devices, such as printers, must be placed in areas where their use
does not expose data to unauthorized individuals. The organization is expected to develop and
maintain lists of personnel with authorized access, and personnel are issued appropriate
authorization credentials such as proximity cards, passcodes, combinations, or physical keys.
So far, you've analyzed Rudison's implementation of technical controls. But as these examples show,
not all cybersecurity controls involve "logical" or "technical" implementations. Some are "physical"
or "non-technical", such as walls, locked doors, and so forth. In this activity, you'll consider how you
might examine such controls by taking a look at:
¢ PE.L1-3.10.1 — Limit physical access to organizational information systems, equipment, and the
respective operating environments to authorized individuals.
¢ PE.L1-3.10.3 — Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity.
¢ PE.L1-3.10.4 — Maintain audit logs of physical access.
¢ PE.L1-3.10.5 — Control and manage physical access devices.
1. Review the Level 1 physical protection practices in the Assessment Guide.
a) In the Assessment Guide, using the Table of Contents, locate the page that contains the Level 1
physical protection practices for PE.L1-3.10.1.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 424 ---
412 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
b) Examine the description and objectives for this practice.
Physical Protection (PE)
PE.L1-3.10.1 - LIMIT PHYSICAL ACCESS
Limit physical access to organizational information systems, equipment, and the respective
operating environments to authorized individuals.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES [NIST SP 800-171A]
Determine if:
[a] authorized individuals allowed physical access are identified;
[b] physical access to organizational systems is limited to authorized individuals;
[c] physical access to equipment is limited to authorized individuals; and
[d] physical access to operating environments is limited to authorized individuals.
This practice involves making sure that only authorized individuals will have physical access to
sensitive systems, equipment, and operating environments. The four objectives needed to provide
the necessary controls are listed.
2. Review an example provided in the Assessment Guide.
a) Scroll down as needed to see the Example shown in the Further Discussion section, and read the
example.
Example
You manage a DoD project that requires special equipment used only by project team
members [b,c]. You work with the facilities manager to put locks on the doors to the areas
where the equipment is stored and used [b,c,d]. Project team members are the only
individuals issued with keys to the space. This restricts access to only those employees who
work on the DoD project and require access to that equipment.
Potential Assessment Considerations
e Are lists of personnel with authorized access developed and maintained, and are
appropriate authorization credentials issued [a]?®
e Has the facility/building manager designated building areas as “sensitive” and designed
physical security protections (e.g., guards, locks, cameras, card readers) to limit physical
access to the area to only authorized employees [b,c,d]??
e Are output devices such as printers placed in areas where their use does not expose data
‘ . syitl ew } ] Pe
1910
These brief case studies help to illustrate each practice in a real-world context, and how they might
be assessed.
3. For Rudison, do you know which individuals are allowed physical access to
each environment?
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 425 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 413
. Once we've analyzed their home environments, are we finished with
PE.L1-3.10.1?
. So, how do we demonstrate that those environments have appropriate
physical access controls in place?
. Review the other practices in the physical protection domain.
a) Now scroll down as needed to examine the descriptions and objectives for the remaining PE
practices.
¢ PE.L1-3.10.3 Escort Visitors
¢ PE.L1-3.10.4 Physical Access Logs
¢ PE.L1-3.10.5 Manage Physical Access
. Does Rudison have the information we need to mark any of these practices
as "Fully Implemented"?
. Save and close the workbook file.
a) In Excel, select File>Save and exit Excel.
b) Leave the Assessment Guide PDF open so you can easily refer to it later.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic B
--- PAGE 426 ---
414 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC C
Assess CMMC Level 1 Practices
As you have progressed through the Assessment preparation cycle, you performed a gap analysis
against the systems in scope to determine whether any changes were needed to the environment.
During the gap analysis, you also collected Evidence to support your position that the OSC has
sufficiently adopted the CMMC Level | practices. More than likely, your gap analysis identified
practices or objectives that were not met, and you’ve spent some time making changes to the OSC's
environment to address those shortcomings.
Implementing fixes for any gaps that are identified is beyond the scope of this course, and we're
now going to assume that you are confident that those are done. In this topic, you will collect and
review Evidence as part of a Level 1 Self-Assessment or as part of a Level 2 Assessment, working as
an Assessment Team Member under the direction of the Lead Assessor.
CCP Roles for Assessing Level 1 Practices
Level 1 Self-Assessment As a Consultant for the OSC 4 | Define the Level 1 self-assessment scope. Participate in a Level 2 Assessment
As an Assessment Team Member
Under the direction of the Lead Assessor, assess
Level 1 Practices only.
Use the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide - Level 1 to:
° Test to see if systems are configured correctly.
¢ Examine provided documentation and artifacts.
¢ Interview individuals who perform the relevant tasks.
[2] Support OSC to submit self-assessment score to SPRS.
[5] Report findings to Lead Assessor.
ro
Figure 8-25: A CCP might assess the CMMC Level 1 practices as a Level 1 Self-Assessment or as
part of a Level 2 Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 427 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 415
Rudison — Network Architecture and SC.L1-3.13.5
¢-=--[ Assessment Boundary |= ========9<99592525555°°°°->--
( ,-~[ Certification Boundary ] ====-=====-===-=-===-=--------- |
V1 <>) End-User Devices \ Cloud-based Working Environment 1]
1 ee KS 4
I I
Hn Authentication (Azure AD) Assessing SC.L1-3.13.5 adoption:
I] Office 365 * Email Ij
11 * General file sharing 1] :
Chris PC 50 * Office 365 - N/A
! ; Mark PC * Compute resources ! I * End-User Devices/Networks - N/A
. i I
II AWS Source code repository I ° AWS - Tough
14 * Single sign-on with Office 365 I } gn call whether N/A or not
| I * Accessed via RDP I}
V2 ee eee ee ee ee ~/)
Meee eee eee ee 4
¢777[ Out of Scope ]-===== a mt
: ae * Human resources 1
I usto.com ° Payroll I
I
} Data ¢ !
; QuickBooks | + Accounting I
I
I I
1 WordPress | ° Marketing 1
' Site + Lead generation ;
I I
I I
N d
Figure 8-26: Think like an Assessor. Is SC.L1-3.13.5 not applicable since Rudison uses cloud
computing?
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 428 ---
416 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Rudison — SC.L1-3.13.5 Evidence
° Publicly accessible system components are identified.
° Examine - Copy of the system inventory with a description of the document and its relevance to SC.L1-3.13.5.
° Interview - Interview with Mark regarding network architecture and system inventory.
* Subnetworks for publicly accessible system components are physically or logically separated from
internal networks.
¢ Examine - Configuration screen capture/dump to demonstrate that all incoming traffic on all ports is blocked,
except VPN ports, to the VPC. Description of the screen captures and how their relevance to SC.L1-3.13.5.
Figure 8-27: Some examples of Evidence that Rudison could collect for SC.L1-3.13.5.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 429 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 417
Guidelines Used by CCPs/CCAs to Assess the Level 1 Practices
¢ Be comprehensive.
¢ Ensure the scope has been identified according to the CMMC Self-Assessment Scope—Level 1.
Use the self-assessment criteria and methodology in the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1.
¢ Follow these steps to assess every Assessment Objective (AO) for all Level 1 practices:
Identify the Evidence you have or need to collect.
Mark the assessment methods (Examine, Interview, Test).
oO ON
Determine if the Evidence is adequate and sufficient.
Determine if there are any indicators that adversely impact satisfying the AO.
Determine the assessment score - MET, NOT MET, or NA.
Provide a rationale for the practice scores.
Ensure that evidence is adequate and sufficient to demonstrate adoption of every AO.
* Do the implemented controls represent the controls as defined?
* Does the Evidence provided meet the minimum intent of the AO? If so, how?
° Does a specific policy or procedure exist that tells us how to meet this objective? If so, how?
° Has the OSC provided any other Evidence that the OSC is meeting the AO?
Figure 8-28: CCPs and CCAs should assess every Assessment Objective for every Level 1 practice.
Notes
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 430 ---
418 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 8-5
Assessing a CMMC Level 1 Practice
Data Files
C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\Rudison L1 Evidence.xlsx
All files in the folder named C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\Rudison
Before You Begin
You have already opened the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1 in your PDF reader.
Scenario
Working as a consultant with Rudison, you've been asked to verify that the information Rudison has
collected for AC.L1-3.1.20 supports an accurate self-assessment according to the Assessment Guide.
The goal is to determine whether the information provides adequate and sufficient proof that
Rudison is meeting the Assessment Objectives associated with AC.L1.3.1.20.
1. Read about AC.L1-3.1.20 in the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1.
a) In the Assessment Guide, locate the section on AC.L1-3.1.20 and read the details.
You should always start by reviewing the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1 to familiarize
yourself with a practice and its corresponding objectives. Look at the Assessment Methods and
Objects DoD and NIST suggest, to help you understand what they are looking for in this practice. If
you need more details, look to NIST SP 800-171A (although it is largely repeated in the Assessment
Guide). If you need even more information, look to NIST Handbook 162.
2. Does the AC.L1-3.1.20 practice make sense on its own, or do you need to
review informative references for additional information?
3. Open the workbook Rudison has prepared for the Evidence.
a) Navigate to the folder C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 and open the file
Rudison L1 Evidence.xlsx.
4. Which column(s) contain Evidence for each of the objectives?
5. Has Rudison provided multiple forms of Evidence for each objective?
6. Select E18 and read the explanation of the Evidence for Objective D.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 431 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 419
7. Do you have any concerns with the descriptions and whether they are likely to
demonstrate adoption of the objective? If so, please explain.
8. Now look at how Rudison plans to demonstrate adoption of each objective
under the Interview and Test Assessment methods. Do the suggested
interviews and tests seem likely to demonstrate that the entirety of each
objective is met?
9. Review each piece of Evidence listed in the Examine column.
a) Navigate to the C:\093200Data\Implementing and Evaluating Level 1\Rudison folder.
b) Open and review all of the files, making sure to access every subfolder.
10.When viewed in their entirety, do the files demonstrate that all aspects of
each objective have been met? Why or why not?
11.Save and close the files.
a) Close the Rudison L1 Evidence.xlsx file and exit Excel.
b) Close the CMMC Self-Assessment Guide—Level 1 PDF file.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 | Topic C
--- PAGE 432 ---
420 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Summary
In this lesson, you identified the CMMC Level | practices in the six domains that DIB contractors
will need to satisfy in order to accurately self-attest to their CMMC Level | compliance. You learned
how to perform a gap analysis so as a CCP, you are able to help an OSC determine their readiness
before a self-assessment or a formal Assessment by a C3PAO. Additionally, you will want to be able
to validate the Evidence that is collected to ensure that a Level 1 self-assessment is comprehensive.
Which of the CMMC Level 1 practices do you think will be the most challenging
for OSCs to meet?
Which of the CMMC Level 1 practices do you think will be the most challenging
to assess?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
* peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 8: Implementing and Evaluating Level 1 |
--- PAGE 433 ---
Identifying Level 2
Practices
Lesson Time: 1 hours, 20 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you have experienced performing a gap analysis and an Evidence Validation for
an Organization Seeking Certification (OSC) at CMMC Level 1, you are ready to explore the
more complex requirements for CMMC Level 2. Keep in mind that the Levels are
cumulative, so you might need to review lower-level practices and Assessment Objectives as
you evaluate the current CMMC Level. In this lesson, you will identify the practice and
Assessment Objective requirements for Level 2.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
¢ Identify the advanced CMMC practices at L2.
--- PAGE 434 ---
422 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPICA
Identify CMMC Level 2 Practices
At CMMC Level 2, most OSCs will need to undergo a third-party assessment. In addition to
working with a C3PAO to verify compliance, going from CMMC Level 1 to Level 2 is a huge jump
that includes increasing the number of practices from 17 to 110 practices. In this topic, the L2
practices will be covered.
Level 2 Domains
Access Control Incident Response
Risk Assessment
Audit and ;
Accountability Maintenance
Security
Assessment
Awareness and
Training Protection
System and
{6mm Communications
Protection
Configuration Personnel
CM .
Management Security
System and
Information
Integrity
Identification Physical
IA and : sie
Authentication rorecsion
Figure 9-1: Level 2 has practices in all 14 domains. Remember the Levels are cumulative, so a L2
Assessment includes all L1 practices also.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 435 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 423
L2 Access Control Practices (1 of 2)
AC Practices Assessment Objectives
AC Access Control
Practice ID Practice Statement
AC.L2-3.1.3 Control the flow of CUI in accordance with approved authorizations.
AC.L2-3.1.4 Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.
AC.L2-3.1.5 Employ the principle of least privilege, including for specific security functions and privileged
accounts.
AC.L2-3.1.6 Use non-privileged accounts or roles when accessing nonsecurity functions.
AC.L2-3.1.7 Prevent non-privileged users from executing privileged functions and capture the execution of such
functions in audit logs.
AC.L2-3.1.8 Limit unsuccessful logon attempts.
AC.L2-3.1.9 Provide privacy and security notices consistent with applicable CUI rules.
AC.L2-3.1.10 | Use session lock with pattern-hiding displays to prevent access and viewing of data after a period of
inactivity.
More AC practices =>
Figure 9-2: At Level 2, the Access Control domain practices focus on establishing system access
requirements, controlling internal and remote access, and limiting data access to users who are
authorized to do so.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 436 ---
424 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Access Control Practices (2 of 2)
Assessment Objectives
AC Access Control
Practice ID
AC.L2-3.1.11
AC.L2-3.1.12
AC.L2-3.1.13
AC.L2-3.1.14
AC.L2-3.1.15
AC.L2-3.1.16
AC.L2-3.1.17
AC.L2-3.1.18
AC.L2-3.1.19
AC.L2-3.1.21
Practice Statement
Terminate (automatically) a user session after a defined condition.
Monitor and control remote access sessions.
Employ cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality of remote access sessions.
Route remote access via managed access control points.
Authorize remote execution of privileged commands and remote access to
security-relevant information.
Authorize wireless access prior to allowing such connections.
Protect wireless access using authentication and encryption.
Control connection of mobile devices.
Encrypt CUI on mobile devices and mobile computing platforms.
Limit use of portable storage devices on external systems.
Figure 9-3: At Level 2, the Access Control domain practices focus on establishing system access
requirements, controlling internal and remote access, and limiting data access to users who are
authorized to do so.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 437 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 425
L2 Audit and Accountability Practices
AU Practices Assessment Objectives
AU
Audit and
Accountability
Practice ID Practice Statement
AU.L2-3.3.1 AU.L2-3.3.2 AU.L2-3.3.3 AU.L2-3.3.4 AU.L2-3.3.5 AU.L2-3.3.6 AU.L2-3.3.7 AU.L2-3.3.8 AU.L2-3.3.9 Create and retain system audit logs and records to the extent needed to enable the monitoring,
analysis, investigation, and reporting of unlawful or unauthorized system activity.
Ensure that the actions of individual system users can be uniquely traced to those users so they can
be held accountable for their actions.
Review and update logged events.
Alert in the event of an audit logging process failure.
Correlate audit record review, analysis, and reporting processes for investigation and response to
indications of unlawful, unauthorized, suspicious, or unusual activity.
Provide audit record reduction and report generation to support on -demand analysis and reporting.
Provide a system capability that compares and synchronizes internal system clocks with an
authoritative source to generate time stamps for audit records.
Protect audit information and audit logging tools from unauthorized access, modification, and
deletion.
Limit management of audit logging functionality to a subset of privileged users.
Figure 9-4: At Level 2, the Audit and Accountability domain practices are mainly focused on
logging.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 438 ---
426 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Awareness and Training Practices
AT Practices Assessment Objectives
AT
Awareness and
Training
Practice ID Practice Statement
AT.L2-3.2.1 AT.L2-3.2.2 AT.L2-3.2.3 Ensure that managers, systems administrators, and users of organizational systems are made aware
of the security risks associated with their activities and of the applicable policies, standards, and
procedures related to the security of those systems.
Ensure that personnel are trained to carry out their assigned information security -related duties and
responsibilities.
Provide security awareness training on recognizing and reporting potential indicators of insider
threat.
Figure 9-5: At Level 2, Awareness and Training domain practices focus on continually training
and educating the workforce about threats and how personnel can be the first line of defense,
including who they should reach out to with questions.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 439 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 427
L2 Configuration Management Practices
Assessment Objectives
CM
Configuration
Management
0
Total 9 44
Practice ID Practice Statement
CM.L2-3.4.1 CM.L2-3.4.2 CM.L2-3.4.3 CM.L2-3.4.4 CM.L2-3.4.5 CM.L2-3.4.6 CM.L2-3.4.7._ CM.L2-3.4.8 CM.L2-3.4.9 Establish and maintain baseline configurations and inventories of organizational systems (including
hardware, software, firmware, and documentation) throughout the respective system development life
cycles.
Establish and enforce security configuration settings for information technology product employed in
organizational systems.
Track, review, approve or disapprove, and log changes to organizational systems.
Analyze the security impact of changes prior to implementation.
Define, document, approve, and enforce physical and logical access restrictions associated with changes
to organizational systems.
Employ the principle of least functionality by configuring organizational systems to provide only essential
capabilities.
Restrict, disable, or prevent the use of nonessential programs, functions, ports, protocols, and services.
Apply deny-by-exception (blacklisting) policy to prevent the use of unauthorized software or deny-all,
permit-by-exception (whitelisting) policy to allow the execution of authorized software.
Control and monitor user-installed software.
Figure 9-6: At Level 2, the Configuration Management domain practices are relatively easy to
achieve, but require a significant amount of self-discipline to accomplish. Leveraging a
framework to ensure that the practices are conducted in a repeatable and improvable manner is a
good first start.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 440 ---
428 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Identification and Authentication Practices
Identification
and
Authentication
Practice ID
1A.L2-3.5.3
IA.L2-3.5.4
IA.L2-3.5.5
IA.L2-3.5.6
IA.L2-3.5.7
IA.L2-3.5.8
IA.L2-3.5.9
IA.L2-3.5.10
IA.L2-3.5.11
Practice Statement
Use multifactor authentication for local and network access to privileged accounts and for network
access to non-privileged accounts.
Employ replay-resistant authentication mechanisms for network access to privileged and non-
privileged accounts.
Prevent reuse of identifiers for a defined period.
Disable identifiers after a defined period of inactivity.
Enforce a minimum password complexity and change of characters when new passwords are created.
Prohibit password reuse for a specified number of generations.
Allow temporary password use for system logons with an immediate change to a permanent
password.
Store and transmit only cryptographically-protected passwords.
Obscure feedback of authentication information.
Figure 9-7: At Level 2, the Identification and Authentication domain practices focus on ensuring
good password usage.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 441 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 429
L2 Incident Response Practices
IR Practices Assessment Objectives
Incident Response
Practice ID Practice Statement
IR.L2-3.6.1 IR.L2-3.6.2 IR.L2-3.6.3 Establish an operational incident-handling capability for organizational systems that includes
preparation, detection, analysis, containment, recovery, and user response activities.
Track, document, and report incidents to designated officials and/or authorities both internal and
external to the organization.
Test the organizational incident response capability.
Figure 9-8: At L2, the Incident Response domain practices focus on developing an effective
incident response plan.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 442 ---
430 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Maintenance Practices
MA Practices Assessment Objectives
MA Maintenance
Practice ID
MA.L2-3.7.1
MA.L2-3.7.2
MA.L2-3.7.3
MA.L2-3.7.4
MA.L2-3.7.5
MA.L2-3.7.6
Practice Statement
Perform maintenance on organizational systems.
Provide controls on the tools, techniques, mechanisms, and personnel used to conduct system
maintenance.
Ensure equipment removed for off-site maintenance is sanitized of any CUI.
Check media containing diagnostic and test programs for malicious code before the media are used in
organizational systems.
Require multifactor authentication to establish nonlocal maintenance sessions via external network
connections and terminate such connections when nonlocal maintenance is complete.
Supervise the maintenance activities of maintenance personnel without required access
authorization.
Figure 9-9: At Level 2, the Maintenance domain practices focus on the organization's
maintenance planning.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 443 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 431
L2 Media Protection Practices
MP Practices Assessment Objectives
Media Protection
Practice ID Practice Statement
MP.L2-3.8.1
MP.L2-3.8.2
MP.L2-3.8.4
MP.L2-3.8.5
MP.L2-3.8.6
MP.L2-3.8.7
MP.L2-3.8.8
MP.L2-3.8.9
Protect (i.e., physically control and securely store) system media containing CUI, both paper and
digital.
Limit access to CUI on system media to authorized users.
Mark media with necessary CUI markings and distribution limitations.
Control access to media containing CUI and maintain accountability for media during transport
outside of controlled areas.
Implement cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality of CUI stored on digital media
during transport unless otherwise protected by alternative physical safeguards.
Control the use of removable media on system components.
Prohibit the use of portable storage devices when such devices have no identifiable owner.
Protect the confidentiality of backup CUI at storage locations.
Figure 9-10: At Level 2, the Media Protection domain practices start with the proper marking and
handling of CUI, as well as sanitizing media to avoid sending it to individuals who should not be
receiving it.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 444 ---
432 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Personnel Security Practices
PS Practices Assessment Objectives
Personnel Security
Practice ID Practice Statement
PS.L2-3.9.1 Screen individuals prior to authorizing access to organizational systems containing CUI.
PS.L2-3.9.2 Ensure that organizational systems containing CUI are protected during and after personnel actions
such as terminations and transfers.
Figure 9-11: At Level 2, the Personnel Security domain practices instruct companies that handle
any sensitive data, including CUI, to conduct pre-employment screening on personnel before
they officially join the organization.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 445 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 433
L2 Physical Protection Practices
PE Practices Assessment Objectives
Physical Protection
Practice ID Practice Statement
PE.L2-3.10.2 PE.L2-3.10.6 Protect and monitor the physical facility and support infrastructure for organizational systems.
Enforce safeguarding measures for CUI at alternate work sites.
Figure 9-12: At Level 2, the Physical Protection domain practice focuses on preventing physical
access to the console and physical servers as a critical step in cybersecurity.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 446 ---
434 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 Risk Assessment Practices
RA Practices Assessment Objectives
RA Risk Assessment
Practice ID Practice Statement
RA.L2-3.11.1 RA.L2-3.11.2 RA.L2-3.11.3 Periodically assess the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or
reputation), organizational assets, and individuals, resulting from the operation of organizational
systems and the associated process, storage, or transmission of CUI.
Scan for vulnerabilities in organizational systems and applications periodically and when new
vulnerabilities affecting those systems and applications are identified.
Remediate vulnerabilities in accordance with risk assessments.
Figure 9-13: At Level 2, the Risk Assessment domain practices focus on documenting a risk
management plan.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 447 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 435
L2 Security Assessment Practices
CA
Security
Assessment
Practice ID Practice Statement
CA.L2-3.12.1 CA.L2-3.12.2 CA.L2-3.12.3. CA.L2-3.12.4 Periodically assess the security controls in organizational systems to determine if the controls are
effective in their application.
Develop and implement plans of action designed to correct deficiencies and reduce or eliminate
vulnerabilities in organizational systems.
Monitor security controls on an ongoing basis to ensure the continued effectiveness of the controls.
Develop, document, and periodically update system security plans that describe system boundaries,
system environments of operation, how security requirements are implemented, and the
relationships with or connections to other systems.
Figure 9-14: At Level 2, the Security Assessment domain practices include having a System
Security Plan (SSP) to know what the entire infrastructure looks like, what is connected to the
network, and how the networks are configured.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | TopicA
--- PAGE 448 ---
436 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 System and Communications Protection Practices (1 of 2)
System and Assessment Objectives
sea) =Communications
Protection
Practice ID Practice Statement
SC.L2-3.13.2 SC.L2-3.13.3 SC.L2-3.13.4 SC.L2-3.13.6 SC.L2-3.13.7 SC.L2-3.13.8 SC.L2-3.13.9 Employ architectural designs, software development techniques, and systems engineering principles
that promote effective information security within organizational systems.
Separate user functionality from system management functionality.
Prevent unauthorized and unintended information transfer via shared system resources.
Deny network communications traffic by default and allow network communications traffic by
exception (i.e., deny all, permit by exception).
Prevent remote devices from simultaneously establishing non-remote connections with
organizational systems and communicating via some other connection to resources in external
networks (i.e., split tunneling).
Implement cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure of CUI during transmission
unless otherwise protected by alternative physical safeguards.
Terminate network connections associated with communications sessions at the end of the sessions
or after a defined period of inactivity.
More SC practices =>
Figure 9-15: At Level 2, the System and Communications Protection domain practices focus on
securing collaborative computing devices, such as microphones and cameras, and securing the
network connections.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 449 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 437
L2 System and Communications Protection Practices (2 of 2)
System and Assessment Objectives
SC Communications
Protection 1 2 410
Total 16 41
PracticeID Practice Statement
SC.L2-3.13.10 SC.L2-3.13.11 SC.L2-3.13.12 SC.L2-3.13.13 SC.L2-3.13.14 SC.L2-3.13.15 SC.L2-3.13.16 Establish and manage cryptographic keys for cryptography employed in organizational structure.
Employ FIPS-validated cryptography when used to protect the confidentiality of CUI.
Prohibit remote activation of collaborative computing devices and provide indication of devices in
use to users present at the device.
Control and monitor the use of mobile code.
Control and monitor the use of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technologies.
Protect the authenticity of communications sessions.
Protect the confidentiality of CUI at rest.
Figure 9-16: At Level 2, the System and Communications Protection domain practices focus on
securing collaborative computing devices, such as microphones and cameras, and securing the
network connections.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 450 ---
438 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
L2 System and Information Integrity Practices
System and Assessment Objectives
Information
Integrity
Practice ID Practice Statement
SI.L2-3.14.3 SI.L2-3.14.6 SI.L2-3.14.7 Monitor system security alerts and advisories and take action in response.
Monitor organizational systems, including inbound and outbound communications traffic, to detect
attacks and indicators of potential attacks.
Identify unauthorized use of organizational systems.
Figure 9-17: At Level 2, the System and Information Integrity domain practices focus on good
patch management to keep operating systems, applications, and devices effectively updated.
Notes
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 451 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 439
ACTIVITY 9-1
Identifying Level 2 Practices
Data File
C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources\AG_Level2_MasterV2.0 FINAL 202112016 508.pdf
Scenario
As a CCP, you must understand all the practices in order to provide consulting services. In this
activity, you will examine the L2 practices.
1. Open C:\093200Data\CMMC Resources
\AG_Level2_MasterV2.0_FINAL_202112016_508.pdf.
2. Which characteristic of the CMMC Model best describes the rationale for
Level 1 practices being included in the Level 2 Certification?
O Institutionalized
O Cumulative
O Restrictive
O Documented
3. It is often stated that human behavior is the biggest risk to cybersecurity.
Which Level 2 practice ensures that new employees have been properly
vetted to guarantee that they can be trusted to handle CUI? Where in the AG
did you find the answer?
4. Review the Assessment Objectives for PS.L2-3.9.1.
ro. ‘tf Note: OSC must meet all Assessment Objectives in order for the practice to be
MET. As a CCP, you need to thoroughly understand each Assessment Objective
~ for all 110 Levels 1 and 2 practices.
5. As part of the Assessment, you are interviewing the OSC's legal counsel
about the organization's privacy and security notices for CUI rules. What
practice are you assessing?
6. Close all open files.
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices | Topic A
--- PAGE 452 ---
440 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Summary
In this lesson, you have learned about the additional practices required to protect CUI at CMMC
Level 2. In addition, you know that a C3PAO will be engaged to conduct the formal CMMC Level 2
Assessment, which is a critical component of the CMMC program.
What kinds of additional challenges do the Level 2 practices and Assessment
Objectives bring when preparing a company for an Assessment or completing
an Assessment?
What do you think will be the hardest part of achieving CMMC Level 2?
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
a peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 9: Identifying Level 2 Practices |
--- PAGE 453 ---
Working through an
Assessment
Lesson Time: 3 hours, 20 minutes
Lesson Introduction
Now that you are familiar with the practice requirements for CMMC Levels 1 and 2 and
how they are assessed, you can turn your focus to the practicalities of how an Assessment is
conducted. In this lesson, you will work through the Assessment process from the request
for an Assessment to the final recommended findings briefing with the Organization
Seeking Certification (OSC). You'll also be introduced to the POA&M Close-Out
Assessment phase.
Lesson Objectives
In this lesson, you will:
* Identify the roles and responsibilities of the organizations and people involved in a
CMMC Assessment.
* Define the logistics required to plan and prepare for an Assessment.
* Conduct a CMMC Assessment.
¢ Report the Assessment results.
¢ Define the POA&M Close-Out Assessment process.
--- PAGE 454 ---
442 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC A
Identify Assessment Roles and Responsibilities
Before you begin the formal Assessment process, it's important to understand the organizations and
individuals that are involved in a CMMC Assessment and their respective responsibilities.
Contextual CMMC Assessments
e Each CMMC Assessment will be different:
° There is no way to anticipate the many ways in which evidence may be presented across varying
environments and configurations.
° Far too many different types of businesses, systems, and configurations to account for.
° CMMC Assessments evaluate:
e Each practice within the context of the OSC's organizational ecosystem.
° The Assessment Team needs to research the organization to be successful.
No other
company is
quite the same
as me!
O
(7)
(@)
Figure 10-1: CMMC Assessments are contextual for each OSC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 455 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 443
—
R
pone J; four Phases of the Assessment Process
( / Plan and Prepare the Assessment
7Fa
Lt Conduct the Assessment
By
=
pone
Report Recommended Assessment Results
==
r *Y CMMC POA&M Close-Out Assessment
ip
Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
Figure 10-2: The four phases of the Assessment process as indicated by the CMMC Assessment
Process (CAP).
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 456 ---
444 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ésc Roles
OSC Assessment Official: The most senior representative of an Organization Seeking
Certification who is directly and actively responsible for leading and managing the OSC’s
engagement in the Assessment and who possesses decision -making authority for the OSC with
regard to the CMMC Assessment.
° Must be an employee of the organization that is being assessed.
* Only the OSC Assessment Official can agree to and sign the Assessment Plan.
Point-of-Contact (PoC): The individual who provides daily coordination and liaison support
between the OSC and the Assessment Team.
* Does not necessarily have to be an employee of the organization that is being assessed.
* Could be a contractor, consultant, or advisor like a CMMC Registered Practitioner (RP).
Figure 10-3: The role of the OSC Assessment Official and the Point-of-Contact (PoC) might be
filled by the same person or separate people depending on the size of the OSC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 457 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 445
bsc Assessment Official and PoC Responsibilities
OSC Assessment Official
OSC Point-of-Contact
¥ Identify Assessment funding and authorize
payment.
v _ Sign off on the Assessment scope and
boundaries.
v Delegate a PoC to work directly with the
Assessment Team.
v¥ Approve Assessment Plan.
Y¥ Encourage honesty and candor for interviewees
during the Assessment.
¥ Review Assessment results with Lead Assessor.
Manage logistics such as having adequate space
for the team to meet with OSC representatives.
Coordinate site access and communicate visitation
policies.
Handle facility access and daily visitor escort.
Ensure that the necessary SMEs and people
familiar with the organization’s operations are
available.
Ensure access to requested artifacts and
supporting data.
Minimize disruptions for the Assessment Team.
Figure 10-4: The OSC Assessment Official and the PoC have specific responsibilities during the
Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 458 ---
446 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
C3PAO Roles
CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organization (C3PAO): An authorized and independent
conformity-Assessment body that contracts with the OSC to conduct CMMC Assessments and
issues the CMMC certification.
Lead Assessor: Individual who oversees and manages the Assessment Team during a CMMC
Assessment for a particular OSC.
Certified CMMC Assessor (CCA): Individuals with background, training, and examination
requirements outlined by The Cyber AB who are trained to conduct assessments up to a
specific CMMC Level.
Certified CMMC Professionals (CCP): Individuals whose purpose, requirements, benefits, and
timeline for certification and assessments are outlined by The Cyber AB.
CMMC Quality Assurance Professional (CQAP): Individuals who are responsible for ensuring
the completeness and accuracy of the Assessment documentation.
Figure 10-5: The C3PAO contracts with the OSC to conduct a CMMC Assessment that involves a
variety of individuals and the Assessment Team.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 459 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 447
Lead Assessor and the Assessment Team Member
Responsibilities
o Lead Assessor
Assessment Team (CCA/CCP)
¥ Conduct preliminary discussions with OSC to ¥_ determine scope, resources, and access needs/restrictions. Assessor.
Follow the Assessment Plan and CMMC
Assessment Process as directed by the Lead
Y Validate site access and communicate visitation v _ Engage OSC personnel in a professional manner.
olicies with the Assessment Team.
P ¥ _ Take good notes.
v¥ Request relevant artifacts for review prior to . _— . .
q . 7 v¥_ Ensure confidentiality of all collected information.
onsite visit.
VY Plan the Assessment. Vv . .
Communicate status, issues, and/or Assessment
needs early and often with Lead Assessor.
Y¥ Develop the evidence collection approach.
¥ _ Minimize disruptions to the organization.
v Manage the Assessment Team.
¥ Communicate with OSC Official, PoC, and other
stakeholders.
Figure 10-6: As a member of the Assessment Team, a CCP has specific responsibilities that are
different from the Lead Assessor's responsibilities.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 460 ---
448 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
COAP and Other C3PAO Staff Responsibilities
ow CQAP
Other C3PAO Staff
Y¥ Use the CMMC Assessment Quality Review The C3PAO eMASS Account Holder will:
Checklist. ;
Y¥ Contact the CMMC Program Management Office
v Verify Pre-Assessment documentation to ensure its (PMO) administrator to have a record created for
accuracy and completeness. the HQ Organization or Host Unit being assessed.
Y Verify the accuracy and completeness of the v¥ Upload Pre-Assessment documentation to eMASS.
Assessment Results Package. 2 v¥ Upload Assessment Results Package to eMASS.
Y Verify POA&M Closeout documentation is accurate vv .
and complete. Upload POA&M Closeout documentation to eMASS.
A C3PAO Official will:
Y¥_ Make final decisions if there is a dispute between
the OSC and the Assessment Team regarding
findings.
Figure 10-7: Staff members at the C3PAOs have critical roles in the Assessment Process. As the
CCP, you should understand the roles and responsibilities of your C3PAO colleagues, even
though you might not be responsible for these tasks.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 461 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 449
P's Role in the Assessment Process
Working on a Level 2 Assessment, CCPs contribute to each phase of the Assessment Process.
¢ In Phase 1: Plan and Prepare Assessments, a CCP must:
° Assist in analyzing requirements.
¢ Assist in developing an Assessment Plan.
° Assist in verifying everyone’s readiness to conduct an Assessment.
In Phase 2: Conduct Assessment, a CCP must:
° Assist in collecting and examining Evidence for Level 1 practices.
° Assist in scoring Level 1 practices and validating the preliminary results.
¢ Assist in generating the final Assessment results.
In Phase 3: Report Recommended Assessment Results, a CCP must:
¢ Assist in delivering the recommended Assessment results.
In Phase 4: Remediate Outstanding Assessment Issues, a CCP must:
¢ Assist in the validation and close-out of the OSC’s POA&M.
Figure 10-8: A CCP must be ready to assist the Lead Assessor at every phase, including assessing
Level 1 practices in a Level 2 Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 462 ---
450 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC eMASS
v Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (CMMC eMASS): A web-based U.S. Department of
Defense off-the-shelf solution that automates a broad range of services for cybersecurity
management. CMMC eMASS serves as the system of record for CMMC Assessment data and
reporting. Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
° eMASS:
° Provides situational awareness for Information Assurance activities throughout the DoD.
° Serves as a centralized tool for Assessment and Authorization of DoD Information Systems.
* CMMC eMASS is a fully customized and tailored version of the tool, providing for:
e Assessment Records Management.
° Data Ingest (JSON files or supported spreadsheets).
e Assessment Workflow Management.
° Reporting and Metrics.
° Assessment information, including results of Assessment activities, will be uploaded into eMASS.
° The CAP indicates who is responsible for uploads (C3PAO or Lead Assessor) at different points in the
Assessment process.
° No sensitive or proprietary artifacts or data will be ingested or stored.
° Access requires a favorable suitability determination for account activation and issuance of DoD hard token.
° System compatible templates will be available from The Cyber AB through the CMMC eMASS application.
Figure 10-9: CMMC eMASS is the DoD information repository and workflow automation tool that
has been customized for CMMC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 463 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 451
CMMC eMASS Environments
CMMC Environments
CMMC eMASS Initial Deployment
Assessor and Instructor Data:
- C3PAOs
- Instructors
- Licensed Training Partners
- Licensed Publishing Partners
CMMC-AB Infrastructure
Marketplace Training
o
C3PAOs &
References assessor Data
12. f
wit LE CMMC eMASS
Assessment Data Repository
Data Ingest
CMMC CMMC Certificate Generation
CSPAO Infrastruct D ata Dispute Resolution Processes
ntrastructure i i
Standard Reporting and Metrics
CMMC L3 certified | fee a |
/ tt
Assessment >\ | Data
Tool \
Sey
i)
Secure
Data
Transfer
SPRS
CMMC Data:
* Company Information
+ Assessment Scope
+ CMNC Level
+ Expiration Date
Certificate generated by CMMC eMASS.
, retrieved by C3PAO, and sent securely
DIB Company to DIB company
Hashed
Evidence
DISTRIBUTION A. Approved for public release
4
Source: The Cyber AB Town Hall February 2021
Figure 10-10: The schematic for the initial deployment of the CMMC eMASS environments.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 464 ---
452 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Tenets for CCP and Assessment Team Members
* Professionalism:
° Be professional, courteous and meaningful in your actions.
¢ Always remember, your role is that of aCMMC representative.
° Overall success is contingent, in part, upon your actions.
* Communication:
e Ensure communications are clear and purposeful.
¢ Requests for information and/or data should be supportive to Assessment needs.
e Effective communication is the hallmark of high-performance teams.
° Diligence:
° Evaluate data and interview responses in their appropriate context.
¢ Draw upon the expertise of the Lead Assessor, where necessary, for clarity and guidance.
° Take good notes to preserve context and observations.
¢ Reliability:
¢ Comply with OSC visitation policies, internal team guidelines, and Assessment schedules.
¢ Integrity:
° Observe Assessment confidentiality.
¢ Work to ensure fidelity in the Assessment process and supporting processes.
e Employ proper use of methods as described by the Assessment Guides and the CAP.
¢ Act ina manner consistent with the intent of the materials to preserve the integrity of the CMMC mission.
Figure 10-11: The tenets of professionalism, communication, diligence, reliability, and integrity
should be followed by a CCP and Assessment Team Members.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 465 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 453
Fostering a Positive Assessment Culture for the OSC
e Assessment not an audit.
° Audits just check practice is performed - Yes/No. ° Assessments evaluate the practice within the OSC's unique context. ° Working together with the OSC to protect the country.
° Focus is to assess current security levels to build stronger security culture across the DIB.
° Assessments are stressful because contracts are on the line.
¢ Be professional and kind.
° Provide an unbiased, honest, and candid assessment.
° Critical to form solid working relationships.
° Friendly, not adversarial.
e You are their guest.
° Collaboration.
° Be patient.
° Use different approaches if you're not getting what you need from the OSC .
Vat
eee
Culture
Figure 10-12: A positive Assessment culture is critical to forming a solid working relationship
with the OSC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 466 ---
454 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 10-1
Identifying Assessment Roles and
Responsibilities
Scenario
As a CCP, you will work collaboratively with the rest of the Assessment Team under the leadership
of the Lead Assessor. In this activity, use the following scenario to answer the question about the
identifying roles in the Assessment.
1. You are working as a CCP supporting the Lead Assessor in the selection of
team members for your organization's upcoming CMMC Level 2 Assessment.
The scope of this Assessment includes validation of the security controls
within the organization's Cloud Services Environment and, specifically, their
corporate infrastructure. The Lead Assessor is not familiar with the members
of the organization and asks your insight to help with the selection of
Assessment Team Members. One of the candidates, Tom Smith, is the son of
the business owner and has just graduated from college with a Bachelor of
Fine Arts.
Would you recommend Tom Smith as an Assessment Team Member? Yes or
no, and why?
2. Who is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the
Assessment Results Package?
O Lead Assessor
O 0 O
CCP
CQAP
C3PAO
3. Who oversees and manages the individuals involved and the phases of a
CMMC Assessment for a particular OSC?
O CCP
O Lead Assessor
O CQAP
O C3PAO
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic A
--- PAGE 467 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 455
TOPIC B
Plan and Prepare the Assessment
As a member of the Assessment Team, you might be asked to help prepare for the Assessment. In
this topic, you will learn how an Assessment Team will plan and prepare for a CMMC Assessment.
Phase 1: Plan and Prepare the Assessment
OSC
Contact
=
Vv
C3PAO
Designate a PoC
Receive RFA
¥
Establish Roles &
Responsibilities
Prepare
Assessment
Documents
4
Start Intake
Form
Identify Lead
Assessor
Provide plan inputs:
Assessment Framing
Assessment Scope
boundaries
Verify CMMC Level 2
Requirements
¢ Projected timeline
¢ Physical location
Lead Assessor
Conduct
Pre-Assessment Call
Evaluate Preliminary
Evidence and
with OSC PoC
Assessment Packet
4
’
Complete Intake
Form
Develop Assessment
Plan
~~
y
Verify Assessment
Framing and Scope
Verify Readiness —
Conduct CA-RR
OSC needs to No
prepare more By
and re-start Beaay!
the process
Yes
Schedule
Assessment
¥
Complete
Assessment Plan
a
Figure 10-13: The process for Phase 1: Plan and Prepare the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 468 ---
456 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Phase 1 Tasks and Outputs
In this phase of the Assessment, the CCP's role is determined by the Lead Assessor. As a member
of the Assessment Team, CCPs need to be aware of and understand the responsibilities of each role
in this phase, even though the roles' tasks might not be their responsibility.
Tasks
OSC contacts C3PAO
OSC analyzes Assessment Requirements
Commence CMMC Assessment Framing
C3PAO assigns Lead Assessor
Prepare the Assessment Team
Confirm and validate Assessment Scope
Complete Intake Form
Develop and approve Assessment Plan
Verify readiness to conduct the Assessment
(Conduct CA-RR)
Upload Pre-Assessment data into eMASS
Required Outputs
* Completed Intake Form
¢ Draft/Final Assessment Requirements/ROM
° CA-RR results
e Assessment Plan and Schedule
* Non-Disclosure Agreement (suggested)
Figure 10-14: The tasks and required outputs for Phase 1: Prepare and Plan the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 469 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 457
Request for CMMC Assessment (RFA)
° OSCs can select any C3PAO in good standing and submit a request for a CMMC Assessment.
° C3PAOs in good standing are found through the CMMC Marketplace.
° The DoD and The Cyber AB will not serve in an introductory or facilitation role.
° Requests can include a preference for a specific Lead Assessor.
° C3PAO has final decision on Assessment Team selection.
¢ C3PAOs have 5 business days to:
e Respond in writing to the RFA.
e Assign a Lead Assessor.
° Factors for Lead Assessor selection:
° Certified CMMC Level 2.
e Assessment experience.
¢ Knowledge of OSC context.
° Type of DoD contract.
° Industry.
° Geographical location in relation to the OSC's location.
Figure 10-15: OSCs start the process with a request fora CMMC Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 470 ---
458 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Framing
-- Assessment framing: The practice of identifying the size, scale, date, time, place, manner,
resources, and level of effort associated with the prospective conduct of aCMMC Assessment.
This high-level contract framing is performed jointly by the C3PAO and the OSC and is conducted at
the beginning of their engagement. Source: CMMC Assessment Process, version 5.4
¢ Contract discussions between the OSC and the C3PAO at the beginning of their engagement.
Recommended that C3PAQs sign an NDA as part of this initial contractual arrangement.
¢ Elements to be discussed during framing include:
Corporate entity to be assessed.
OSC Assessment Official who has decision-making authority for the Assessment.
OSC’s target CMMC Level.
OSC’s Assessment Scope.
Location(s) and dates for conducting the Assessment.
Aspects of the Assessment that will be conducted virtually, if any.
Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) to estimate duration and timing for the Assessment.
OSC organizational details, including roles and responsibilities of IT and information security staff.
Staff that will provide Evidence and context for the Assessment.
The OSC’s Self-Assessment Practice Deficiency tracker items that might result in a POA&M in Phase 2.
Assessment outputs to be provided to the OSC.
Figure 10-16: Assessment framing involves scoping out the logistics involved for a C3PAO to
conduct an Assessment for an OSC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 471 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 459
Access to Facilities & Resources Required by the Assessment
Team
¢ Lead Assessor and OSC Official determine resources required to meet Assessment Objectives.
° Cost.
* Schedule (e.g., schedule constraints, interview times and locations, duration of Assessment events, and effort).
* Personnel (e.g., interviewees, SMEs and other Assessment participants).
° Equipment (e.g., secure office space, and other Assessment resources).
° The OSC must ensure required access to facilities and resources including:
° Coordinating visitor requests for Lead Assessor and Assessment Team.
° Requesting permission for network connectivity for the Assessment Team.
* Communicating restrictions regarding mobile devices, etc.
° Ensuring OSC participant availability during the Assessment.
Figure 10-17: The OSC will work with the Lead Assessor to ensure access to required facilities
and resources.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 472 ---
460 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Assessment Scope Validation
e Lead Assessor works with OSC Assessment Official or PoC to confirm the entity to be assessed.
° The entire organization (HQ Organization)
¢ Adiscrete subsidiary or division (Host Unit)
° OSC identifies supporting organizations that might be included in the CMMC Assessment Scope.
¢ OSC provides documentation of the target scope.
e Asset inventory.
° Network diagrams.
e System Security Plan (SSP).
° Policies.
° Organization charts.
° Consider an NDA between the C3PAO and the OSC since:
¢ This OSC documentation is proprietary information.
e A formal Assessment contract does not yet exist.
e Lead Assessor validates the OSC’s CMMC Assessment scope.
° Any differences of opinion must be resolved before the Assessment may start.
Figure 10-18: As part of planning, the OSC must provide documentation of the Assessment
scope for the Lead Assessor to validate.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 473 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 461
Non-Duplication Considerations
Non-Duplication: A planning step that allows consideration of commonalities between cyber
security certifications and/or relevant industry standards when planning a CMMC Assessment to
minimize duplication of effort.
° Lead Assessors may be asked to consider practices assessed under other industry standards.
e ISO/IEC 27001
e FedRAMP
° DIBCAC High Assessments (DFARS 252.204-7012)
¢ Until DoD releases guidance on non-duplication, other cybersecurity conformance regimes do not
bestow any status or credit towards an OSC’s CMMC certification.
° Guidance will be included in the CAP once the DoD finalizes it.
¢ Intent is that practices MET via non-duplication agreements:
e May be subject to a reduction in Evidence review.
° Will be described in the tailoring section of the Assessment Plan.
Figure 10-19: Non-duplication is the act of reviewing other relevant cybersecurity certifications
in an attempt to reduce repetition of cybersecurity assessments.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 474 ---
462 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The Assessment Plan
¢ Template provided by
GREENE The Cyber AB or it
CYBER SHIELD ROME se (Cli [Me
equivalent.
¢ Data format consistent
with CMMC eMASS.
° Created by the Lead
Assessor with input from
the CCPs and CCAs.
° The Assessment Plan records the requirements,
agreements, risks, COI, tailoring, and logistics
for all Phases of the Assessment.
° Lead Assessor along with Assessment Team
members (CCPs and CCAs) creates the:
° Artifact Gathering Plan
e Interview Plan
° Testing Plan
¢ Approved and signed by OSC Assessment
Official.
¢ Planning sections include:
° Analyze Assessment Requirements
Assessment framing
Validate Assessment Scope details
Identify OSC cybersecurity procedures
Record evidence against adequacy and sufficiency
criteria
Assessment outputs
° Develop Assessment Plan
Evidence collection approach
¢ Virtual collection techniques
° Artifact gathering and availability
° Interviewing and testing plans
Assessment resources and schedule
Identify and manage conflicts of interest
° Verify Readiness to Conduct Assessment
Assessment Team readiness and training
Inventory and verify Evidence
Certification Assessment-Readiness Review (CA-RR)
Figure 10-20: The Assessment Plan is created by the Lead Assessor at the beginning of the
Assessment process.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 475 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 463
Assessment Plan Updates
Update the Assessment Plan when any significant change occurs, including but not limited to:
° If/when any scope changes to the OSC-C3PAO contract occur.
° Any change in the OSC organizational scope or functions:
° For example, added or removed units, added, or removed process roles.
* Changes to dates/times or scheduled Assessment events, including the dates for the Assessment
itself.
° Changes to the Assessment Team.
* Any unplanned disruptions (e.g., COVID-19 travel restrictions or protocols, natural disasters, etc.):
e Before the Assessment (Phase 1).
¢ During the Assessment (Phase 2).
IN
Figure 10-21: The Assessment Plan is a living document that continues to be modified
throughout the Assessment by the Lead Assessor with input from CCPs and CCAs.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 476 ---
464 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The Certification Assessment Readiness Review (CA-RR)
° Critical component to moving ahead to Assessment.
¢ Determines whether all stakeholders ready to conduct Assessment as planned.
° OSC
| e Assessment Team
° Includes:
¢ Determining the availability and sufficiency of the Evidence.
¢ Determining the preparedness of the Assessment Team.
¢ Ensuring coordination of logistics.
° Determining and understanding impacts of identified risks to the Assessment process.
° Determining overall readiness to proceed.
This way to
assessment
Lead
_Assessor |/
Figure 10-22: Performed by the Lead Assessor with input from CCPs and CCAs, the CA-RR
determines whether the OSC and the Assessment Team are ready to conduct the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 477 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 465
The CA-RR Checklist
endees
A las
alyze Assessment
Schedule ) Cancel
inaabaillil nts L) On-site Assessment UL) Re-schedule
an nN eile LJ Hybrid Assessment CJ On Schedule
mewsenn men O Virtual Assessment L) Assessment Approval
“tT . LU Flights to OSC location(s) Q Contract with C3PAO and
ae ) Hotel/ Lodging for Assessment OC) CQAP Verification of
REAGIAESS ream Pre-Assessment Plan
Artifacts C) Identify and Manage Ei Pre-Assessment Plar-uplog
nterviews Assessment Risks into CMMC eMASS
xamine/Test(s) Scheduled O Personnel
sessment Team Readiness OQ) Logistics
skills/Training Verified O) Facilities
Suitability Verified LJ Schedule
Domain/Family Grouping L) Cost
ssigned “CT Data
. .
5 e f\ U = = \— Dp enel: ne Ww ~ = =
whether it needs to-be rescheduled_or cancelled nL
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 478 ---
466 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Suggested CMMC Domain Groupings for Team Assignments
Identification and Cybersecurity Oversight Configuration
Access Management and Management Management Network Defense
Awareness Configuration Incident
Access Control and Training Management Response
. System and
Audit and Personnel .
-
Accountability Security Maintenance Communications
Protection
Identification Physical Media System and
alle Protection Protection Tiieniietle
Authentication Integrity
Risk Assessment
Security
Assessment
Figure 10-24: The Lead Assessor can use these domain groupings as one way to assign practices
to team members for the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 479 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 467
Final Steps Before Phase 2
e Update the Assessment Plan based on CA-RR.
° CQAP verifies the Pre-Assessment Template package.
e Upload Pre-Assessment Data to CMMC eMASS.
° Execute the contract between the C3PAO and the OSC.
Figure 10-25: Before you can move to Phase 2, you need to upload the verified Pre-Assessment
package to CMMC eMASS, and execute the contract between the C3PAO and the OSC.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 480 ---
468 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 10-2
Planning for an Assessment
Scenario
As a CCP on an Assessment Team, you need to be familiar with the logistics of an Assessment
beginning with the Planning phase. In this activity, you will consider some scenarios and determine
whether they follow the recommended Assessment Processes.
1. What can an Assessment Team do to foster a positive Assessment culture?
2. An OSC contacts a C3PAO for a CMMC Assessment. The C3PAO assigns a
CCP who contacts the OSC and schedules a site visit for the Assessment.
Does this scenario include the proper initial steps in the Assessment
Process?
3. An OSC contacts a C3PAO for a CMMC Assessment. They indicate they are
looking for a Level 2 Certification and provide a network diagram and other
details to document the scope of the Assessment. The C3PAO assigns a
Lead Assessor, who starts planning. First, the Lead Assessor confirms the
Assessment boundaries. Next, the Lead Assessor conducts a CA-RR. After
confirming that there is sufficient Evidence to proceed, the Lead Assessor
develops an Assessment Plan and schedules an on-site visit to the OSC.
Does this scenario include the proper initial steps in the Assessment
Process?
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 481 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 469
4. A C3PAO is conducting a CA-RR as part of the prep work for an Assessment
requested by an OSC. During the readiness review, a CCP points out that
there is no Evidence for SI.L1-3.14.4 and suggests that the OSC collect scan
results from their anti-virus and anti-malware software to fill the gap.
Is this an acceptable action during a Certification Assessment Readiness
Review?
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic B
--- PAGE 482 ---
470 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC C
Conduct the Assessment
After the Assessment Plan and the CA-RR have been completed, the Assessment Team is ready to
conduct the Assessment. In this topic, you will learn about the second phase of a CMMC
Assessment.
Phase 2: Conduct the Assessment
OSC
Develop and Conduct _ a Provide Contextual
Opening Briefing Information (PoC)
an ee a J
Ss
, < a >| Provide evidence of
Collect and Examine IL 1 implementation
Evidence 1
1
I
= i
ra) Score practices and . Create Limited '
7 characterizations iS yr Practice Deficiency I
& | Correction program
I
~” .
® Generate and Validate 14 A Preliminary Findings rom i
>| Submit OSC POA&M
sae 2222]
o”
¢
4
NITY . F
Review and Validate cone aly _» Participate in Daily
OSC POA&M p ! Checkpoints
LY
I
1
I
I
I
Participate in Final
Conduct Final Recommended Findings Review
A
y
Vv
Recommended
~*
x
N
Findings Review
Figure 10-26: The process for Phase 2: Conduct the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 483 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 471
Phase 2 Tasks and Outputs
In this phase of the Assessment, the CCP's role is determined by the Lead Assessor. As a member
of the Assessment Team, CCPs need to be aware of and understand the responsibilities of each role
in this phase, even though the roles' tasks might not be their responsibility.
Tasks
Conduct Kick-Off/Opening Brief
Examine and analyze Assessment Evidence
¢ Conduct interviews and analyze results
° Observe tests and analyze results
¢ Verify evidence and record gaps
Update Evidence review approach and
status
Score practices/validate Preliminary Findings
° Determine and record initial model scores
* Document Limited Practice Deficiencies
° Create Limited Practice Deficiency Correction
Generate Preliminary Findings
Validate OSC’s POA&Ms
Create and finalize Recommended Final
Findings
OSC initiates Dispute Resolution Process, if
they have issues with the outcome
Required Outputs
Recorded Opening Briefing
Records of Evidence Review
Practice Scores and Justification
Updated Assessment Plan and Schedule
Preliminary Recommended Findings
Evidence Hashed Value
Daily Checkpoint Log
Recommended Final Findings
Figure 10-27: The tasks and required outputs for Phase 2: Conduct the Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 484 ---
472 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
On-Site Work for CCPs
° Participate in the Assessment Kickoff known as the Opening Brief.
° Follow the guidance and direction of the Lead Assessor.
¢ Perform examination of OSC artifacts.
° For each assigned CMMC Practice: ¢ Participate in interview sessions. ° Observe and analyze results of tests.
° Examine and verify Evidence, noting gaps where identified.
Welcome!
Please Sign In at
Office
° Participate in team practice characterization and Final Findings.
¢ Use good communication skills when interviewing or observing tests and demonstrations.
° Ensure affirmations are provided by people who implement, perform, or support the procedures for the
practice being assessed.
° Provide feedback.
° Archive/destroy Assessment artifacts.
Figure 10-28: The CCP's activities to be done when preparing for and during an on-site
Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 485 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 473
Opening Briefing
¢ Vital communication mechanism for the OSC, Lead Assessor, and the Assessment Team.
¢ Participants include:
° OSC Assessment Official and OSC PoC
° All members of the OSC who will be providing Evidence and being interviewed.
e Lead Assessor and Assessment Team Members
° OSC provides high-level overview of their:
¢ Company.
° Cybersecurity program.
e Lead Assessor provides information regarding:
° Scope, purpose, and goals of the Assessment.
° Overview of the Assessment process.
e Assessment logistics and schedule.
° Required participants and meeting location.
Opportunity for the OSC to ask questions of the Assessment Team.
° Should be no surprises from work previously completed off site.
Figure 10-29: The Opening Briefing is a required component of the Assessment process and
serves as an important communication mechanism for the OSC, the Lead Assessor, and the
Assessment Team.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 486 ---
474 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Daily Checkpoints
e Required component of the Assessment process, helping to ensure:
e Assessment is proceeding as planned.
* Data collection needs are being met.
* Issues impacting completion of the Assessment are identified, mitigated, and resolved.
* Conducted at the end of each Assessment day and includes:
° Lead Assessor.
e Assessment Team Members.
* OSC Assessment Participants (including, OSC Assessment Official, PoC, and other key personnel).
° Helps to ensure that context is maintained during the review of Evidence.
° A Daily Checkpoint Log will be used to record meeting decisions and disposition.
Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
VIM IM |
Figure 10-30: Daily checkpoints ensure that the Assessment is proceeding smoothly and without
surprises.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 487 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 475
Guidelines for Working through an Assessment
Seek first to understand the nature of the OSC and the context of its processes.
° What line of business is it in?
° What does its ecosystem look like?
Adapt to the organization.
¢ Be open minded, but consistent in your validation approach.
e Ensure your actions as a CCP support effective Assessment characteristics.
° Objective, fair, consistent, reliable.
Verify resource availability (Assessment participants, rooms, equipment, etc.).
e Engage the right resources.
¢ Conduct interviews with those responsible for performance of the process or development of the plan.
Verify the sufficiency of the collected Evidence.
e Must address the full scope of the Assessment.
° Must cover the Assessment scope (target level).
e Must correspond to the Evidence collection approach.
e Lead Assessor ensures that no proprietary data leaves the OSC’s environment.
¢ Without the express written consent of the OSC Assessment Official.
¢ At all times, comply with the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) and the CoPC.
Figure 10-31: Recommended guidelines for working through an Assessment as a CCP.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 488 ---
476 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Evidence Collection Worksheet
Pull down menu with MET,
F
GREENE .
CYBER SHIELD dence Collection Worksheet
NOT MET, and N/A
2 Organization Analyzed: |
3 CAGE Code: Assessment Team:
4 Description of System(s) Analyzed: Vv
5 Objecti Assessment Evidence of Successful Adoption
6 Practice Practice Description Determine if: Findings Rationale
7 /AC.1.001 (a) authorized users are identified
(b) processes acting on behalf of
8 | authorized users are identified
(c) devices (and other systems)
Limit system access to authorized to connect to the system
9 | authorized users, processes |are identified
acting on behalf of (d) system access is limited to
10 | authorized users, and authorized users
devices (including other (e) system access is limited to
systems). processes acting on behalf of . 0
1 authorized users Write the Evidence and the
(f) system access is limited to :
authorized devices (including other reasoning that led to the
12 systems)
‘AC.1.002 (a) the types of transactions and Assessment finding
Limit information system
functions that authorized users are
access to the types of
13 | and functions |Petmitted to execute are defined
; (b) system access is limited to the
that authorized users are § ;
; defined types of transactions and
14 [pected to execute: functions for authorized users
(AC.1.003 (a) connections to external systems
15) are identified
(b) the use of external systems is
16 identified
Verify and control/limit —_|(c) connections to external systems
17| toanduseof [are verified
external information (d) the use of external systems is
18 | systems. verified
(e) connections to external systems
19| are imi
(f) the use of external systems is
20 controlled/limited
X _S
aa
L1 practice descriptions and
Assessment Objectives
Figure 10-32: An example of a Evidence collection worksheet for CMMC Level 1.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 489 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 477
Objective-Level Scoring of Practices
* CCPs and CCAs will score practices: e Iteratively based on daily reviews.
e At the Assessment Objective level based on Evidence received. e Evidence can be from any of the three Evidence types: Examine, Interview, and/or Test.
e Evidence must meet the standards prescribed for “adequacy and sufficiency.”
* As MET, NOT MET, or NA.
e When validating preliminary results, for a practice to be scored as MET:
* The CCP/CCA must examine and accept the Evidence.
¢ The Evidence examined must be applicable to the practice. ° The Evidence must fully reflect the performance of the practice Assessment Objective
defined in the CMMC Level 2 Assessment Guide. ¢ CCPs and CCAs will document Evidence gaps. ¢ Difference between what the Evidence shows, and what the Assessment Team requires.
¢ For example:
¢ Incomplete documents.
e Incomplete tests or interview affirmations
¢ Not from the person responsible for the practice. ° Policies lacking endorsement from senior management.
¢ No signature or digit endorsement via email or chat. i—~.
5 p
i—~.
NeTMETs
wey
i—~.
ff N
as
Figure 10-33: CCPs and CCAs score practices at the Assessment Objective level and Evidence
gaps must be recorded.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 490 ---
478 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
The DoD Assessment Scoring Methodology
° Provides an objective, quantitative assessment of the OSC’s CMMC L2 practice implementation.
° Incorporates weighted values based on criticality and/or relative importance of the practice.
° Awards 1 point for every practice fully implemented.
e An OSC is awarded a score of 110 when all security requirements are fully implemented.
Subtracts points for practices not fully implemented.
¢ Due to the different weights for each practice, an OSC could end up with a negative score.
Points will NOT be deducted for practices determined to be NA.
e For example, companies may not permit remote access (AC.L2-3.1.12, AC.L2-3.1.16, and AC.L2-3.1.18) as
reflected in the OSC’s policies and procedures.
¢ If the OSC disallows remote access, but this is NOT reflected in policies/procedures, 1 point will be deducted.
° Implemented security measures adjudicated by the DoD CIO as equally effective, and security
requirements approved by the DoD ClO as ‘not applicable,’ in accordance with DFARS 252.204 -7008
or 7012 will be assessed as ‘implemented.’
Figure 10-34: CCPs and CCAs will use the DoD Assessment Scoring Methodology, which weights
practices based on their relative impact on the security of the network and its data.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 491 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 479
Practices Weighted as 5 Points
A weight of 5 points is assigned for security requirements that, if left not implemented, could lead to
a significant exploitation of the network, or exfiltration of DoD CUI data.
Basic Security Requirements with a value of 5 points include: Derived Security Requirements with a value of
5 points include:
° AC.L1-3.1.1 and AC.L1-3.1.2 © AC.L2-3.1.12, AC.L2-3.1.13, AC.L2-3.1.16, AC.L2-
° AT.L2-3.2.1 and AT.L2-3.2.2 3.1.17 and AC.L2-3.1.18
e AU.L2-3.3.1 e AU.L2-3.3.5
© CM.L2-3.4.1 and CM.L2-3.4.2 ° CM.L2-3.4.5, CM.L2-3.4.6, CM.L2-3.4.7, and
© 1A.L1-3.5.1 and 1A.L1-3.5.2 CM.L2-3.4.8
© MA.L2-3.7.2 e MA.L2-3.7.5
© MP.L1-3.8.3 ¢ MP.L2-3.8.7
© PS.L2-3.9.2 e RA.L2-3.11.2
° SC.L1-3.13.5, SC.L2-3.13.6, and SC.L2-3.13.15
e PE.L1-3.10.1 and PE.L2-3.10.2
° SI.L1-3.14.4 and SI.L2-3.14.6
° CA.L2-3.12.1 and CA.L2-3.12.3
° SC.L1-3.13.1 and SC.L2-3.13.2
° SI.L1-3.14.1, SI.L1-3.14.2, and SI.L2-3.14.3
*NOTE: SC.L2-3.13.11 is also weighted 5 points if no cryptography is employed.
Figure 10-35: Practices that could lead to a significant exploitation of the network if
unimplemented are assigned a weight of 5 points.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 492 ---
480 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Practices Weighted as 3 Points
A weight of 3 points is assigned for Basic and ‘Derived Security Requirements’ that, if left
unimplemented, would have a specific and confined effect on the security of the network and its data.
¢ Basic Security Requirements with a value of 3 points include:
e AU.L2-3.3.2, MA.L2-3.7.1, MP.L2-3.8.1, MP.L2-3.8.2, PS.L2-3.9.1, RA.L2-3.11.1, and CA.L2-3.12.2.
° Derived Security Requirements with a value of 3 points include:
e AC.L2-3.1.5, AC.L2-3.1.19, MA.L2-3.7.4, MP.L2-3.8.8, SC.L2-3.13.8, SI.L1-3.14.5, and SI.L1-3.14.7
*NOTE: There is one practice that can receive partial credit - SC.L2-3.13.11. It is
weighted 3 points if encryption is employed, but it is not FIPS-validated.
Figure 10-36: Practices that would have a limited but clear-cut negative effect on security if
unimplemented are assigned a weight of 3 points.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 493 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 481
Practices Weighted as 1 Point
A weight of 1 point is assigned for all remaining ‘Derived Security Requirements’, that if left
unimplemented, would have a limited or indirect effect on the security of the network and its data.
° AC.L2-3.1.3, AC.L2-3.1.4, AC.L2-3.1.6, AC.L2-3.1.7, AC.L2-3.1.8, AC.L2-3.1.9, AC.L2-3.1.10,
AC.L2-3.1.11, AC.L2-3.1.14, AC.L2-3.1.15, AC.L1-3.1.20, AC.L2-3.1.21, and AC.L1-3.1.22
© AT.L2-3.2.3
° AU.L2-3.3.3, AU.L2-3.3.4, AU.L2-3.3.6, AU.L2-3.3.7, AU.L2-3.3.8, and AU.L2-3.3.9
° CM.L2-3.4.3, CM.L2-3.4.4, and CM.L2-3.4.9
° IA.L2-3.5.4, IA.L2-3.5.5, IA.L2-3.5.6, IA.L2-3.5.7, IA.L2-3.5.8, IA.L2-3.5.9, and IA.L2-3.5.11
° IR.L2-3.6.3
° MA.L2-3.7.3, MA.L2-3.7.6, MP.L2-3.8.4, MP.L2-3.8.5, MP.L2-3.8.6, and MP.L2-3.8.9
e PE.L1-3.10.3, PE.L1-3.10.4, PE.L1-3.10.5, PE.L2-3.10.6
° RA.L2-3.11.3
° CA.L2-3.12.4
° SC.L2-3.13.3, SC.L2-3.13.4, SC.L2-3.13.7, SC.L2-3.13.9, SC.L2-3.13.10, SC.L2-3.13.12,
SC.L2-3.13.13, SC.L2-3.13.14, and SC.L2-3.13.16
Figure 10-37: Practices that would have a narrow or incidental negative effect on security if
unimplemented are assigned a weight of 1 point.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 494 ---
482 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Limited Practice Deficiency Correction Program
What it is
* A “Limited Practice Deficiency” includes practices that may be implemented, but not documented correctly.
* Provides a mechanism by which OSC’s may remediate minor issues within a restricted timeframe.
Restrictions
* Practices that could lead to significant exploitation of the network or exfiltration of CUI are excluded.
° These practices are defined within the CAP.
* Any practice(s) listed on the OSC’s Self-Assessment Practice Deficiency Tracker are excluded.
° Practices that were not implemented prior to the CMMC Assessment are excluded.
* Any practice that changes and/or limits the effectiveness of another practice scored “MET” are excluded.
Figure 10-38: The Limited Practice Deficiency Correction Program provides a mechanism that
enables an OSC to remediate minor issues within a restricted time frame.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 495 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 483
Authorized Limited Practice Deficiencies
* Only the practices listed below are authorized for the Limited Practice Deficiency Correction Program.
* Allowed because they have a limited, or indirect, effect on the security of the network and its data.
AC.L2-3.1.3
AC.L2-3.1.4
AC.L2-3.1.6
AC.L2-3.1.7
AC.L2-3.1.8
AC.L2-3.1.9
AC.L2-3.1.10
AC.L2-3.1.11
AC.L2-3.1.14
AC.L2-3.1.15
AC.L1-3.1.20
AC.L2-3.1.21
AC.L1-3.1.22
AT.L2-3.2.3
AU.L2-3.3.3
AU.L2-3.3.4
AU.L2-3.3.6
AU.L2-3.3.7
AU.L2-3.3.8
AU.L2-3.3.9
CM.L2-3.4.3
CM.L2-3.4.4
CM.L2-3.4.9
IA.L2-3.5.4
IA.L2-3.5.5
IA.L2-3.5.6
IA.L2-3.5.7
IA.L2-3.5.8
IA.L2-3.5.9
IA.L2-3.5.11
IR.L2-3.6.3
MA.L2-3.7.3
MA.L2-3.7.6
MP.L2-3.8.4
MP.L2-3.8.5
MP.L2-3.8.6
MP.L2-3.8.9
PE.L1-3.10.3
PE.L1-3.10.4
PE.L1-3.10.5
PE.L2-3.10.6
RA.L2-3.11.3
CA.L2-3.12.4
SC.L2-3.13.3
SC.L2-3.13.4
SC.L2-3.13.7
SC.L2-3.13.9
SC.L2-3.13.10
SC.L2-3.13.12
SC.L2-3.13.13
SC.L2-3.13.14
SC.L2-3.13.16
Figure 10-39: The following are the only practices authorized for the Limited Practice Deficiency
Correction Program.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 496 ---
484 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Additional Considerations of Limited Practice Deficiencies
If on the allowed list, there are additional criteria for inclusion in the correction program:
° The practice has been implemented for a period of time, but the Evidence shows:
° It is missing minor updates.
° For example:
° Missing updates to policy signatures.
° Procedural documentation inaccurate due to recent technology updates.
° The practice does not change and/or limits the effectiveness of another practice scored “MET”.
* Decision made in discussion with the:
° OSC PoC.
° OSC personnel that gave affirmations in Interviews and provided demonstrations in Tests.
° Lead Assessor.
° Assessment Team Member(s).
Figure 10-40: Additional Considerations of the Limited Practice Deficiencies Corrections
Program.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 497 ---
- Validate en
. Review reco
The prelim
imina
. 0-41: 7 an
Fig and th crs
the
PRELIMINARY
RESULTS
Ce
--- PAGE 498 ---
486 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
OSC POA&M
Vv Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M): A document that identifies tasks needing to be
accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones
in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones.
Source: NIST Computer Security Resource Center
° Prioritizes efforts to correct security weaknesses.
¢ Documents all proposed actions for remediation and the timeline for implementing changes.
¢ Monitors the progress of remediation.
° Should be updated regularly.
° Qualifying OSC POA&M items:
° Listed on the OSC Self-Assessment Practice Deficiency Tracker used in Assessment Framing.
CA.L2-3.12.2 Plan of Action
Develop and implement plans of action designed to correct deficiencies and reduce or eliminate vulnerabilities
in organizational systems.
[a] deficiencies and vulnerabilities to be addressed by the plan of action are identified;
[b] a plan of action is developed to correct identified deficiencies and reduce or eliminate identified
vulnerabilities; and
[c] the plan of action is implemented to correct identified deficiencies and reduce or eliminate identified
vulnerabilities.
Figure 10-42: CA.L2-3.12.2 is the CMMC practice associated with OSC POA&Ms. This is a Level 2
practice; therefore, a CCP will not evaluate the Evidence for this practice.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 499 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 487
POA&M Review and Validation
The Lead Assessor will:
° Ask the Assessment Team to clarify their practice scores, if necessary.
° CCPs provide clarification on Level 1 practices they’ve assessed.
¢ CCAs provide clarification on any Level 1 or 2 practices they’ve assessed.
° Review eligibility for a POA&M to be authorized as part of the Assessment:
° DoD has established a minimum score requirement.
° 80% of the Levels 1 and 2 CMMC practices must be MET (88/110 practices).
e Must meet the criteria of Appendix K.
° The highest-weighted CMMC practices are not allowed on a POA&M.
° Validate the OSC POA&M has the following:
° The specific security weakness revealed in the Assessment and tied to a specific practice.
° The severity of each weakness.
° The scope of each weakness with the assessed environment.
° The proposed mitigation approaches.
° The estimated costs for remediation.
° Documented records of mitigation status and delays.
° Arisk assessment of the deficiency.
¢ Document the valid POA&M practices on the CMMC Assessment Results Template.
Figure 10-43: The Lead Assessor reviews and validates whether the OSC's POA&M is authorized
by the DoD under CMMC Model 2.0.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 500 ---
MC professional
innni HHH
(CCP)
inal Recommended Findings
- Lead Assessor ge
nerates and pre
sents the Final Fin
dings Briefing.
e Based on the Asses
sment Findings Brief Template.
e Occurs during the
final Daily Checkpoint with:
. Assessment parti
cipants.
e Osc Assessment Official
- Based
on all the Evidence reviewed byt
he CCPS and CCAs on the Assessment Team.
¢ Includes Assessmen
4 scores of practices
from all CCPs and CCAS.
e Use Assessment Resu
\ts Template to detail the pra
ctice scores-
0 Aggregate
s and CCAs an
d review during
the Daily checkpoint.
« Include characteriz
atio
e OSC’s aggregated \
evel and each in-se
ope practice.
» Describe noncomp
liance/ nonconf
with sufficie
nt detail to demo
nstrate how the find
ing wa
S derived.
e Check Authorized Deficie
set for allowa
e Rev
iew recommended CMMC Certific
ble practices-
NOT MET decision.
e Review next step
s for OSC after Final Fin
dings Briefing:
« Accept Final Findings.
Practice Deficiency- Complete any Limited
Correction items wit
hin 5 days-
- Complete any
POASM items within 180 days.
TitiCea
Figure 1
0-44: The Final Reco
mmended Findin
gs are presen
ted before the Assessment Team
leaves the site.
Notes
1 asson 10: Workin
--- PAGE 501 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 489
Decision Point for Next Steps
* OSC allowed to utilize the Limited
Practice Deficiency Correction
Program.
* Requires OSC to correct limited 80% = 88/110
practice deficiencies within 5 Receive
business days” of Final Findings. * Any POASM items must be closea
CMMC L2
Certification
out within 180 days (if applicable). * Or Lead Assessor/C3PAO -specified date
(not to exceed 5 days prior to final report
submission to eMASS).
rt
CMMC L2 Certification
NOT ACHIEVED
Figure 10-45: The DoD has set a minimum score (80%, which is 88/110 practices) to determine
whether an OSC is allowed to use the Limited Practice Deficiency Program and POA&M process.
As aCCP, your contribution in evaluating and scoring Level 1 practices is factored into the % MET
calculation which helps the Lead Assessor make the decision about next steps.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 502 ---
490 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 10-3
Participating on an Assessment Team
Scenario
As a CCP on an Assessment Team, you will follow the instructions of the Lead Assessor. In this
activity, you will consider some scenarios and determine whether they follow the recommended
Assessment Processes.
1. During the on-site portion of an Assessment, the Lead Assessor starts with an
Opening Briefing on the first day and concludes on the last day with a Final
Recommended Findings Briefing.
Does this scenario include the proper steps for an on-site visit?
2. During the course of the Assessment, you discover a critical flaw in the as-
implemented security controls, whereby team members who left the
organization were permitted to maintain their account credentials to support
"transition" activities. When seeking clarification, the owner of the company
states, "This is not something we need to worry about." You presume, as he
is the company owner, that his statement is correct.
Based on this scenario, what are your actions?
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic C
--- PAGE 503 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 491
TOPIC D
Report the Assessment Results
When the Assessment has been completed, the next step involves reporting the Assessment results
to the OSC and C3PAO. In this topic, you will learn about the third phase of a CMMC Assessment.
Phase 3: Report Assessment Results
C3PAO OSC
Prepare Assessment Results
Package
Deliver Assessment Results Package —-—=———> Review results > Review results W L ithin
v 5 days
Review Limited Practice Deficiency |. Submit Limited Practice
Correction Deficiency Correction
All practices
MET?
CQAP verifies completeness
and accuracy
J Yes ¥
— ; = Upload Assessment Results
Close-out Limited Practice Deficiency Package to CMMC eMASS
Correction
v
! Approves CMMC L2 Receive CMMC L2
Archive/Dispose of artifacts Certification Certification O
If any practices NOT MET, ee em Qualify for POA&M? ——>
recommend move to POA&M
CMMC L2 Interim
Certification
Figure 10-46: The process for Phase 3: Report Assessment Results.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 504 ---
492 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Phase 3 Tasks and Outputs
In this phase of the Assessment, the CCP's role is determined by the Lead Assessor. As a member
of in #2 sment Team, CCPs need to be aware of and understand the responsibilities of each role
, even though the roles' tasks might not be their responsibility.
Tasks
¢ Lead Assessor delivers recommended
Assessment Results Package to OSC
Assessment Official.
* Lead Assessor submits Assessment Results
Package to C3PAO.
* CQAP verifies the completeness and accuracy
of Assessment Results Package.
* C3PAO uploads Assessment Results Package
into CMMC eMASS.
* CCPs/CCAs archive or dispose of Assessment
artifacts.
¢ Lead Assessor verifies that artifacts are
archived or disposed.
* C3PAO issues CMMC L2 or L2 Limited
Certification.
Required Outputs
¢ Final Recommended Findings
¢ Assessment Results Package
¢ Records of Evidence reviewed and examined
¢ Practice Scores and Justification
° OSC Artifacts Hash
* Limited Practice Deficiency Correction
Evaluation
Figure 10-47: The tasks and required outputs for Phase 3: Report Assessment Results.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 505 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 493
Limited Practice Deficiency Correction Evaluation
Process
¢ The Lead Assessor and CC
placed on the Limited Pra
e 5 days after the Final Reco
Results
° If all can be marked MET
° OSC will receive aCMMCL
° If any still marked as NOT
° Move them to the OSC PO,
° OSC will receive aCMMCL
° Must close-out POA&M ite
° If the POA&M option can
correct deficiencies and reapply.
Figure 10-48: The Lead Assessor and the CCPs and CCAs must close out the items on the Limited
Practice Deficiency Correction Program 5 days after the Final Recommended Findings Briefing.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 506 ---
494 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Assessment Results Package
° Lead Assessor prepares Assessment Report and supporting materials and submits to the C3PAO.
° Assessment Results Package must include the following Assessment artifacts:
° Final Assessment Plan and Schedule.
° Final Report Part 1 - Final summary-level findings, including recommended CMMC Level (e.g., Final
Recommended Findings Briefing).
° Final Report Part 2 - Final detailed, practice-level scores that are traceable to each finding/score result (e.g.,
Excel spreadsheet).
° Daily Checkpoint Log - Including status of Assessment Team activities, information needs, and requests.
° CQAP verifies the Assessment Results Package to ensure accuracy and completeness.
C3PAO uploads the Assessment Results Package to CMMC eMASS.
e Assessment Team (CCPs/CCAs) archives or destroys Assessment artifacts.
° Lead Assessor must maintain and protect for three (3) years:
e Assessment Team notes.
e Final Assessment Results Package.
° Signed Protection and Destruction of Contractor Assessment Materials template
for each team member.
e Lead Assessor must ensure all artifacts hashed in accordance with the
CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool User Guide. CERTIFICATION
ww
Figure 10-49: The Lead Assessor prepares the Assessment Results Package, which is then
verified by the CQAP. The Lead Assessor also ensures the Assessment artifacts are properly
archived.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 507 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 495
CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool User Guide
Hashing: The process of using a mathematical algorithm against data to produce a numeric value
that is representative of that data. Source: NIST SP 800-72
Purpose
* Can check the integrity of the artifacts by verifying the hash generated during the Assessment.
° If the artifact has not been modified, the hash will remain the same.
Process
° The Assessment Team will store Evidence in a secure location with controlled access.
* The OSC must hash the Evidence and retain for three (3) years.
° The C3PAO will report the OSC’s hash into the CMMC eMASS.
Tool 4
° The CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool is a PowerShell script that:
° Generates a hash of each artifact using the SHA-256 algorithm.
° Generates a list of file names and associated hashes.
¢ Hashes the list.
e The User Guide provides the script and directions for its use.
ij v
CERTIFICATION
NZ
rs) CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool User Guide
Published by the DoD - https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
Figure 10-50: OSCs need to use the CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool to protect the integrity of the
Evidence collected and documented during their Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 508 ---
496 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACCESS
Use the mnemonic ACCESS to verify the proper use of methods as described in the Assessment Guides and the CAP.
Accuracy
Are we reviewing information/artifacts/evidence relevant to
the domain objectives?
Compliance
Does the information/artifacts/evidence presented conform
to requirements of the standard?
Conformance
Do results conform with the requirements of the CMMC
Assessment process and standard?
Efficiency/Efficacy
Are the controls, tools and measures effective in securing
data & mitigating risk/vulnerabilities?
Sufficiency
Is the information/artifacts/evidence presented sufficient to
support domain objectives?
Suitability
Are the OSC controls and supporting tools, procedures/work
aids commensurate with the risk?
Are they supportive to the OSC environment?
Figure 10-51: The mnemonic ACCESS gives CCPs and CCAs a set of questions to ask that will
help ensure the proper use of Assessment methods.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 509 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 497
ACTIVITY 10-4
Reporting the Assessment Results
Scenario
As a CCP on an Assessment Team, you might be asked by the Lead Assessor to help prepare the
Assessment Results Package. In this activity, you will consider some scenarios and determine
whether they follow the recommended Assessment processes.
1. After the Assessment is concluded, the Lead Assessor submits a Final
Assessment Plan and Schedule, summary-level findings, detailed practice-
and process-level findings, and the Daily Checkpoint Log to the C3PAO. The
Lead Assessor directs the CCPs on the Assessment Team to archive or
destroy any artifacts collected during the Assessment. The Lead Assessor
files the team notes and the Assessment Results Package with a destruction
date three years from the date of the Assessment.
Does this scenario include the proper final steps in the Assessment Process?
2. Following the Assessment, another CCP asks if he/she may maintain a copy
of the findings as "they may be useful for future Assessments." Is this
permissible?
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic D
--- PAGE 510 ---
498 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
TOPIC E
Conduct the CMMC POA&M Close-Out
Assessment
Some OSCs will pass the CMMC Assessment and receive their desired CMMC Level Certification
after the on-site visit. However, there might be situations when an OSC comes close to passing the
desired CMMC Level Assessment but something prevents them from being recommended for
CMMC Certification. In this case, an OSC might be able to qualify for a grace period to address
these final issues. In this topic, you will define the POA&M Close-Out Assessment phase.
Os a
S FPP ORT
&
ed
ary of the Assessment Process Phases
&
hg
ie
Plan
OSC
* Contacts C3PAO.
e Analyses Assessment
requirements.
C3PAO
¢ Assigns Lead Assessor.
* Confirm and validate
Assessment Scope.
* Commences CMMC
Assessment Framing.
¢ Upload Pre-Assessment
data into eMASS.
Lead Assessor
* Complete Intake Form.
¢ Evaluate sufficiency and
adequacy of evidence.
¢ Develop and approve
Assessment Plan.
* Conduct CA-RR.
Conduct
Lead Assessor
* Conduct Opening Brief.
¢ Examine and analyze
Assessment Evidence.
° Score practices and
characterizations.
* Create Limited Practice
Deficiency Correction
program, if applicable.
Lead Assessor and OSC
¢ Present and validate
Preliminary Findings.
* Conduct Daily Checkpoints.
* Conduct Final
Recommended Findings
Review.
Report
Lead Assessor
¢ Evaluates Limited Practice
Deficiency Correction
program, if applicable.
¢ Submits Assessment Results
Package to C3PAO.
¢ Archives or disposes of
Assessment artifacts.
C3PAO
* CQAP verifies accuracy and
completeness.
¢ Uploads Assessment Results
Package into CMMC eMASS.
° Issues CMMC L2
Certification or CMMC
Interim L2 Certification.
POA&M Close-Out
Assessment
OSC
¢ Within 180 days, closes
POA&M items.
* Selects C3PAO for Close-Out
Assessment.
C3PAO/Lead Assessor
* Review POA&M and new
Evidence.
° Update POA&M practices’
MET/NOT MET scores.
¢ Submit POA&M Close-Out
Findings.
Figure 10-52: The Plan, Conduct, and Report phases of the Assessment Process occur for all
Assessments. The POA&M Close-Out Assessment phase only occurs if the OSC received a CMMC
Interim L2 Certification in Phase 3.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 511 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 499
Phase 4: CMMC POA&M Close-Out Assessment
OSC C3PAO
Lead Assessor
Select C3PAO and Lead
Assessor to close out
POA&M
.»| Assign Lead Assessor for
POA&M Close Out
\ A
Provide new Evidence on
request
CQAP verifies accuracy
and completeness
Assigned by C3PAO to
conduct close-out
v
Review updated POA&M
and Evidence
\
Conduct POA&M Close-Out
Assessment
All
practices
MET?
Must correct deficiencies
and reapply for CMMC L2
Certification
(Limited L2 Certification is
null & void.)
Receive Final CMMC L2
Upload POA&M Close-Out
Certification O to CMMC eMASS
AS
Archive / destroy artifacts
Figure 10-53: Within 180 days from the Final Recommended Findings Briefing, the OSC must
start the process to close out POA&Ms before CMMC L2 Certification is final. The OSC selects a
C3PAO who assigns a Lead Assessor to perform this phase. CCPs and CCAs involvement is
limited to supporting the Lead Assessor upon request.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 512 ---
500 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Phase 4 Tasks and Outputs
In this.nhase of the Assessment, the CCP's role is determined by the Lead Assessor. As a member
of [| 22os8gessment Team, CCPs need to be aware of and understand the responsibilities of each role
Ase, even though the roles’ tasks might not be their responsibility.
Tasks Required Outputs
* OSC receives a Limited CMMC L2 ° POA&M Close-Out Findings
Certification which prompts the POA&M.
* OSC selects C3PAO and Lead Assessor to
conduct POA&M Close-Out Assessment.
* Reviews updated POA&M and accompanying
Evidence.
° Reviews scheduled collections (observations,
interviews, and tests).
* OSC can follow the Dispute Resolution
process if they believe:
¢ The wrong approach was used, or
* The timeline for corrective actions wasn’t
sufficient.
¢ When POA&M Close-Out Assessment is
complete, C3PAO issues the final CMMC L2
Certification.
Figure 10-54: The tasks and required outputs for Phase 4: CAMC POA&M Close-Out Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 513 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 501
POA&M Close-Out
Purpose
¢ Allows OSCs that received a Limited CMMC L2 Certification during Phase 3 to close out all
practices validated on Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) during a secondary C3PAO
Assessment within 180 days of the Final Recommended Findings.
Responsibilities
© OSC will:
e Schedule the Close-Out Assessment.
¢ Contract with either:
° The C3PAO that conducted the original Assessment, or
° Anew C3PAO.
e Lead Assessor will:
e Review the updated POA&M.
° Schedule Evidence collection via observations, interviews, or tests.
Figure 10-55: After the Final Findings, the OSC has 180 days to fix all the items on their POA&M
and contract with a C3PAO to do a Close-Out Assessment.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 514 ---
502 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
POA&M Close-Out Assessment and Results
POA&M Close-Out Criteria
* The specific security weakness revealed by POA&M has been “Fully-Implemented” and scored “MET”
° All POA&M items “Fully-lmplemented” do not change and/or limit the effectiveness of another practice
scored “MET” during the CMMC L2 Assessment for which the CMMC L2 Interim Certification was issued.
° An updated Risk Assessment shows the removal of the previous CMMC Practices listed on the POA&M.
e An updated POA&M shows no CMMC practice deficiencies.
Results
In the event the OSC corrects all POA&M deficiencies:
¢ The Lead Assessor will recommend CMMC L2 Final Certification.
In the event an OSC fails to correct the POA&M deficiencies:
° The Lead Assessor will not recommend CMMC L2 Final Certification.
° The OSC will still be required to correct deficiencies and reapply for CMMC L2 Certification.
° The CMMC L2 Limited Certification will become null and void.
Figure 10-56: The Lead Assessor will collect and review new Evidence to assess the practices
listed on the POA&M.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 515 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 503
Dispute Resolution Process
e OSC can dispute the outcome of its CMMC Assessment or the POA&M Close -Out Assessment.
¢ The C3PAO holds the final interpretation authority to resolve disputes.
CMMC Assessment
* OSC can follow the Dispute Resolution process if they disagree with:
¢ Scorings and their related findings.
POA&M Close-Out Assessment y S a l) TE
* OSC can follow the Dispute Resolution process if they believe: 4
e The wrong approach was used, or
° The timeline for corrective actions wasn’t sufficient.
Anytime During OSC and C3PAO Engagement
¢ OSC questions the professional conduct of any Assessment Team Member:
° The Cyber AB is responsible for investigating the dispute.
° If CMMC CoPC violations are found, then The Cyber AB will take the appropriate action.
Figure 10-57: When an OSC does not agree with the outcome of their Assessment, they can
submit a dispute resolution.
Notes
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 516 ---
504 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 10-5
Defining the POA&M Close-Out Process
Scenario
In very limited circumstances, CMMC will allow use of a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M)
to remediate practices determined to be not fully or successfully implemented, provided that the
eligibility POA&M requirements are met. As a CCP, you may be asked to provide input to this
process, either through preliminary characterization of Evidence or to provide support to the Lead
Assessor through validation of the POA&M.
In this scenario, you are supporting the Lead Assessor as an Assessment Team Member. During the
course of the Assessment, it was determined that the OSC has not yet fully implemented the
standardized DoD Warning Banners, including a "consent to monitoring" for connected
information systems and devices.
1. Based on this scenario, which CMMC practice would apply?
2. Would the practice be Met or Not Met?
3. Provided that this is the only practice determined to be Not Met, could a
POA&M be employed? If so, what steps would be taken to validate:
4. As a CCP, what additional support might you provide?
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment | Topic E
--- PAGE 517 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 505
Summary
In this lesson, you learned how an Assessment Team will conduct a CMMC Assessment, from the
first planning stages through the on-site work and culminating in the final report submission. You
also learned about POA&Ms and how the POA&M Close-Out Assessment phase provides an
opportunity for OSCs to resolve minor issues in order to receive CMMC L2 Certification.
How do you think an Assessment Team can foster a positive culture instead of a
fearful audit mentality for the OSC?
As an Assessment Team Member, which stage of the Assessment process do
you expect to be the most rewarding or the most challenging?
a “s
Note: Check your CHOICE Course screen for opportunities to interact with your classmates,
peers, and the larger CHOICE online community about the topics covered in this course or
other topics you are interested in. From the Course screen you can also access available
resources for a more continuous learning experience.
Lesson 10: Working through an Assessment |
--- PAGE 518 ---

--- PAGE 519 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 507
Course Follow-Up
Congratulations! You have completed the Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) course. You have gained
the information you need to participate on a CMMC Assessment Team and to provide certified
consulting services to organizations seeking CMMC certification.
You also covered the objectives that you will need to prepare for The Cyber AB Certified CMMC
Professional (CCP) exam. If you combine this class experience with review, private study, and hands-
on experience, you will be well prepared to demonstrate your advanced CMMC expertise both
through professional certification and solid technical competence on the job.
What's Next?
Your next step after completing this course will probably be to prepare for and obtain your CCP
certification. In addition to the CCP exam, all CCP candidates must pass the DoD Mandatory CUI
Training found at https://securityawareness.usalearning.gov/cui/index.html. You must pass
this training no earlier than three months prior to taking the exam.
If you are interested in continuing onwards to becoming a Certified CMMC Assessor, Certified
CMMC Assessor (CCA) is the next course in this series.
You are encouraged to explore CMMC further using the resources provided by The Cyber AB and
the OUSD (A&S).
Course Follow up
--- PAGE 520 ---

--- PAGE 521 ---
Evidence Collection
Approach for CMMC
Level 1 Practices
The following table contains the Evidence collection approach for the CMMC Level 1
practices and their Assessment Objectives.
Practice and Assessment Objectives Evidence
AC.L1-3.1.1 Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on
behalf of authorized users, or devices (including other information systems).
[a] authorized users are identified. Document
[b] processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified. Document
[c] devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified.
Document
[d] system access is limited to authorized users. Screen Share
[e] system access is limited to processes acting on behalf of authorized users.
| Screen Share
[f] system access is limited to authorized devices (including othécreen Share
systems).
AC.L1-3.1.2 Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions
that authorized users are permitted to execute.
[a] the types of transactions and functions that authorized users] Document
are permitted to execute are defined.
[b] system access is limited to the defined types of transactions] Screen Share
and functions for authorized users.
Additional: HR policy or procedure discussing account creation Document
process.
AC.L1-3.1.20 Verify and control/limit connections to and use of external information
systems.
[a] connections to external systems are identified. [b] the use of external systems is identified. Document
Document
--- PAGE 522 ---
510 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Practice and Assessment Objectives Evidence
[c] connections to external systems are verified. [d] the use of external systems is verified. [e] connections to external systems are controlled/limited. [f] the use of external systems is controlled/limited. Artifact
Artifact
Screen Share
Screen Share
AC.L1-3.1.22 Control information posted or processed on publicly accessible information
systems.
[a] individuals authorized to post or process information on publicly accessible systems are identified.
Document
[b] procedures to ensure FCI is not posted or processed on publicly accessible systems are identified.
Document
[c] a review process is in place prior to posting of any content tbArtifact
publicly accessible systems.
[d] content on publicly accessible systems is reviewed to ensur¢ Artifact
that it does not include FCI.
[e] mechanisms are in place to remove and address improper | Artifact
posting of FCI.
IA.L1-3.5.1 Identify information system users, processes acting on behalf of users, or
devices.
[a] system users are identified. [b] processes acting on behalf of users are identified. [c] devices accessing the system are identified. Document
Document
Document
IA.L1-3.5.2 Authenticate (or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices, 4s
a prerequisite to allowing access to organizational information systems.
[a] the identity of each user is authenticated or verified as a prerequisite to system access.
Screen Share
[b] the identity of each process acting on behalf of a user is authenticated or verified as a prerequisite to system access.
Screen Share
[c] the identity of each device accessing or connecting to the system is authenticated or verified as a prerequisite to system
| Screen Share
access.
MP.L1-3.8.3 Sanitize or destroy information system media containing Federal Contract
Information before disposal or release for reuse.
[a] system media containing FCI is sanitized or destroyed befoldocument
disposal.
[b] system media containing FCI is sanitized before it is releasq/ocument
for reuse.
Appendix A : Evidence Collection Approach for CMMC Level 1 Practices |
--- PAGE 523 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 511
Practice and Assessment Objectives Evidence
PE.L1-3.10.1 Limit physical access to organizational information systems, equipment, and
the respective operating environments to authorized individuals.
[a] authorized individuals allowed physical access are identified Artifact
[b] physical access to organizational systems is limited to authorized individuals.
[c] physical access to equipment is limited to authorized individuals.
[d] physical access to operating environments is limited to authorized individuals.
Physical Review
Physical Review
Physical Review
PE.L1-3.10.3 Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity.
[a] visitors are escorted. [b] visitor activity is monitored. Physical Review
Physical Review
PE.L1-3.10.4 Maintain audit logs of physical access.
[a] audit logs of physical access are maintained. Artifact
PE.L1-3.10.5 Control and manage physical access devices.
[a] physical access devices are identified. [b] physical access devices are controlled. [c] physical access devices are managed. Document
Physical Review
Physical Review
SC.L1-3.13.1 Monitor, control, and protect organizational communications (i.e.,
information transmitted or received by organizational information systems) at the externhl
boundaries and key internal boundaries of the information systems.
[a] the external system boundary is defined. Document
[b] key internal system boundaries are defined. Document
[c] communications are monitored at the external system Screen Share
boundary.
[d] communications are monitored at key internal boundaries. | Screen Share
[e] communications are controlled at the external system Screen Share
boundary.
[f] communications are controlled at key internal boundaries. | Screen Share
[g] communications are protected at the external system Screen Share
boundary.
[h] communications are protected at key internal boundaries. | Screen Share
Appendix A : Evidence Collection Approach for CMMC Level 1 Practices |
--- PAGE 524 ---
512 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Practice and Assessment Objectives Evidence
SC.L1-3.13.5 Implement subnetworks for publicly accessible system components that af
physically or logically separated from internal networks.
[a] publicly accessible system components are identified. Document
[b] subnetworks for publicly accessible system components are} Artifact
physically or logically separated from internal networks.
SI.L1-3.14.1 Identify, report, and correct information and information system flaws in a
timely manner.
[a] the time within which to identify system flaws is specified. | Document
[b] system flaws are identified within the specified time frame.] Screen Share
[c] the time within which to report system flaws is specified. | Document
[d] system flaws are reported within the specified time frame. | Screen Share
[e] the time within which to correct system flaws is specified. | Document
[f] system flaws are corrected within the specified time frame. | Screen Share
SI.L1-3.14.2 Provide protection from malicious code at appropriate locations within
organizational information systems.
[a] designated locations for malicious code protection are Document
identified.
[b] protection from malicious code at designated locations is_ | Screen Share
provided.
SI.L1-3.14.4 Update malicious code protection mechanisms when new releases are
available.
[a] malicious code protection mechanisms are updated when _| Screen Share
new releases are available.
SI.L1-3.14.5 Perform periodic scans of the information system and real-time scans of fil
from external sources as files are downloaded, opened, or executed.
[a] the frequency for malicious code scans is defined. Document
[b] malicious code scans are performed with the defined Screen Share
frequency.
[c] real-time malicious code scans of files from external sourcebScreen Share
as files are downloaded, opened, or executed are performed.
Appendix A : Evidence Collection Approach for CMMC Level 1 Practices |
--- PAGE 525 ---
Additional
Documentation for CCPs
This course provides an overview of CMMC, but to become knowledgeable professionals,
CCPs should study the CMMC documentation and the underlying regulations and
standards. In addition to this appendix, check https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/
Documentation/ and https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Resources/ for additional
resources and updates.
CMMC Documentation
CCPs should be very familiar with the official CMMC documentation.
Title Description / URL
CMMC Model Overview Describes the overall framework for CMMC, which is a maturity
model with three levels, each of which have practices to protect
sensitive information.
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
CMMC 2.0 Spreadsheet and Mapping Provides a matrix view of the model, a description of how the
CMMC Model maps to other sources and references for the model,
and also provides the previous CMMC 1.x practice numbering.
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
CMMC Artifact Provides guidance on creating a cryptographic reference (or hash)
Hashing Tool User | for assessment artifacts to ensure artifact integrity.
Guide https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
CMMC Level | Self-
Assessment Guide
Provides the Assessment criteria and methodology for all CMMC
Level 1 practices.
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
CMMC Level 2
Assessment Guide
Provides the Assessment criteria and methodology for all practices
at CMMC Levels 1 and 2.
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms
Provides acronyms and definitions for CMMC terms.
https://dodcio.defense.gov/CMMC/Documentation/
--- PAGE 526 ---
514 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Title Description / URL
CMMC Assessment | Provides the process and guidance for performing a CMMC
Process (CAP) Assessment. The final publication is currently in development by
the DoD and The Cyber AB. A draft version is available from The
Cyber AB.
https://cyberab.org/CMMC-Ecosystem/Member-Area-
Downloads-and-Forums
Standards and Regulations
CCPs should also familiarize themselves with the regulations and standards that provide support for
the CMMC Model. Follow these links to open the documents and become familiar with the
important document parts, and understand the documents' importance to CMMC Assessments.
Title Description / URL
32 CFR Part 2002 Governs handling of CUI.
https://www.federalregister. gov/documents/
2016/09/14/2016-21665/controlled-unclassified-information and
https://www.ecfr. gov/current/title-32/subtitle-B/chapter-XX/
part-2002
CERT RMM Provides supporting materials for the processes in the CMMC Model.
https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/Handbook/
2016_002_ 001 514462.pdf
DFARS 252.204-7012 Regulates how contractors handle CUI and cyber incident reporting.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/
252204.htm#252.204-7012
DFARS 252.204-7019 Requires DIB contractors to submit a summary score of their NIST SP
800-171 compliance.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/
252204.htm#252.204-7019
DFARS 252.204-7020 Defines how the DoD will conduct different types of NIST SP 800-171
assessments.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/
252204. htm#252.204-7020
DFARS 252.204-7021 Enacts the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification framework.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/
252204. htm#252.204-7021
DoD Instruction
5200.48
Establishes policy for CUI throughout the DoD.
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/
issuances/dodi/520048p.PDF?ver=2020-03-06-100640-800
Appendix B : Additional Documentation for CCPs |
--- PAGE 527 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 515
Title Description / URL
DFARS 252.227-7013 Defines the Rights in Technical Data — Noncommercial Items.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/
252227.htm#252.227-7013
Executive Order 13556 Establishes need to protect CUI.
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2010-11-09/pdf/
2010-28360.pdf
FAR 52 (48 CFR § Safeguarding requirements and procedures for FCI.
52.204-21) https://www.acquisition.gov/far/52.204-21-0
FedRAMP FISMA NIST SP 800-37
(RMF)
NIST SP 800-53 NIST SP 800-171
Revision 2
NIST SP 800-171A NIST SP 800-172 Provides a certification program for Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) who
provide the federal government cloud services.
https://www.fedramp.gov/
Regulates how federal executive agencies plan and implement security
controls to protect sensitive information.
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/
CHRG-107hhrg86343/pdf/CHRG-107hhrg86343.pdf
https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/senate-bill/2521
Provides a standardized process to secure, authorize, and manage IT
systems. Used in conjunction with NIST SP 800-53 to meet FISMA
requirements.
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-37/rev-2/final
Provides security and privacy controls for federal information systems.
Used in conjunction with NIST SP 800-37 to meet FISMA requirements.
https://cesre.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-53/rev-5/final
Provides the security controls for protecting CUI in nonfederal systems.
https://csre.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-171/rev-2/final
Provides the Assessment criteria and methodology for evaluating NIST
SP 800-171 compliance.
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-171a/final
Provides federal agencies with advanced controls to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of CUI.
https://cesre.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-172/final
Appendix B : Additional Documentation for CCPs |
--- PAGE 528 ---

--- PAGE 529 ---
Mapping Course Content
to the CCP Exam
Obtaining Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) certification requires candidates to pass the
CCP exam.
To assist you in your preparation for the exam, Logical Operations has provided a reference
document that indicates where the exam objectives are covered in the Logical Operations
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) courseware.
The exam-mapping document is available from the Course page on CHOICE. Log on to
your CHOICE account, select the tile for this course, select the Files tile, and download
and unzip the course files. The mapping reference will be in a subfolder named Mappings.
Best of luck in your exam preparation!
--- PAGE 530 ---

--- PAGE 531 ---
Solutions
ACTIVITY 1-1: Identifying Threats to the Defense Supply
Chain
1. Why is the Defense Supply Chain at risk?
A: Because the DIB is a complex system with Prime contractors and subcontractors dealing
with sensitive information. The more complex the system is, the more opportunities there are
for an adversary to hack into it to steal sensitive information.
2. How does CMMC encourage a different way of thinking about
cybersecurity and protecting sensitive information within the Defense
Supply Chain?
A: CMNC shifts the focus to protecting the information and not just the IT systems. Additionally,
CMMC uses third-party verification to formalize evaluation of how thoroughly the contractors
supplying the DoD make cybersecurity an essential part of their organizational culture.
ACTIVITY 1-2: Identifying Regulatory Responses against
Threats
1. What experience have you had with government contracts and the
regulations that govern them?
A: Answers will vary. For those with little to no experience of working with a government
contract, then they will need to become familiar with the legal, regulatory, and policy drivers
(i.e., FISMA, FAR 52, and 32 CFR Part 2002 that govern sensitive information). For those with
government contracting experience, the DFARS Clause 252.204-7021 that requires CMMC
Certification might be new to them.
2. Which of the following is most clearly associated with a Department of
Defense contract?
O NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
O FAR
© DFARS
O NIST SP 800-171
--- PAGE 532 ---
520 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
3. Where would you look for a primary regulation covering the basic
safeguarding of Federal Contract Information?
© 48 CFR 52.204-21 (also known as FAR 52)
O NARA
O DFARS 252.204-7012
O NIST SP 800-53
. Which DFARS clause identifies the requirement that contractors be
CMMC certified?
O DFARS Clause 252.204-7012
O DFARS Clause 252.204-7019
O DFARS Clause 252.204-7020
© DFARS Clause 252.204-7021
5. Which standard was created in response to Executive Order 13556
and focuses on protecting the confidentiality of Controlled
Unclassified Information in nonfederal systems and organizations?
O NIST SP 800-171A
© NIST SP 800-171
O NIST SP 800-53
O NIST SP 800-172
ACTIVITY 2-1: Identifying What Is and What Is Not
Sensitive Information
1. Is a RFP sensitive information?
A: It depends. Most RFPs are entirely public, so they are not FCI. However, some
aspects of an RFP may only be available to companies with credentials for certain
systems. In such cases, those portions of the RFP are likely to be at least FCI and may
even rise to the level of CUI.
2. When an RFP is released, in many cases a Prime contractor will
be able to perform most of the requirements themselves. However,
they frequently need assistance from one or more subcontractors
to meet the RFP's requirements. So, the Prime contractor and
subcontractor(s) enter into teaming agreements that describe their
respective roles and responsibilities should they win a contract. Is a
teaming agreement sensitive information?
A: Typically, no. Teaming agreements are not created for the government, so although
they are (typically) nonpublic documents, they are not FCI. However, as discussed in the
previous example, some RFPs include FCI or CUI. If the teaming agreement includes
portions of the RFP with FCI or CUI, then the teaming agreement "inherits" the FCI or CUI
designation.
Solutions
--- PAGE 533 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 521
. Are government contracts sensitive information?
A: Many contract terms are publicly available. These include the contractor's name and address, the
amount of the contract, the contracting and funding agencies, the types of goods or services purchased,
and more. But specific contract terms are typically not public information. So, should the contract be
treated as FCI? Probably. Is the contract still FCI if it is made public because of a Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) request? It depends on the information that is disclosed by the FOIA request, but
there is a good chance that the contract terms will now be public information. Does that mean we must
stop treating the contract information as FCI? No. There is no requirement that you stop protecting
information; the only difference is that you may not need to protect it. As a general rule, it is better to
assume that contract terms are FCI until you are confident they aren't.
. When a company creates product documentation when under contract with
the DoD, are those materials sensitive information?
A: Yes, a manual for a product created for the government is CUI. In fact, the manual is likely an
example of CTI, a specified defense subcategory of CUI.
. Are commercial product specification sheets produced by a defense
contractor sensitive information?
A: Product specifications for a government contractor's products are not likely to be information created
under a contract for the government. Therefore, they are not typically going to be FCI.
. Acontractor documents design specifications and submits them to the
government. Are design specifications created under contract sensitive
information?
A: Design specifications and other information created under a contract with the government is likely to
be CUI, unless the contract explicitly states that the information is public or to be made public. For
example, if the government hires your customer to create a new software application that will be
released as open-source software, that might cause the software's design specifications and source
code to not need to be treated as CUI. Short of outlier situations such as this, though, the software, its
documentation and design information, and its source code should be treated as CUI.
. Under contract with the DoD, a contractor creates various drafts of marketing
materials. Are drafts of marketing materials sensitive information?
A: Marketing materials are public. But drafts of the materials are not typically public. Therefore, the
drafts should be treated as FCI.
. The defense contractor receives emails from the government communicating
information about the contract. Are emails communicating contract
information sensitive information?
A: If the defense contractor receives emails from specific individuals in the government (as opposed to
public announcements like the CISA weekly new cybersecurity vulnerability alerts), those emails are
likely to contain nonpublic information and should be treated as FCI or even CUI, depending on whether
the information conveyed in the email is subject to safeguarding or dissemination controls.
. The defense contractor creates encryption technologies as part of a drone
operating system. Are the software and encryption source code sensitive
information?
A: The drone operating system is CUI and probably CTI. In addition, the encryption technology
embedded in the operating system might also be ECI.
10.Is a road map for a military base sensitive information?
A: No, the road map is public information. However, civil engineering maps for a military base would be
considered CUI because it details the infrastructure, which is not public information.
Solutions
--- PAGE 534 ---
522 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 2-2: Managing Sensitive Information
1. You are providing consulting services for a small business that is
planning to obtain CMMC Certification. The OSC has previously
only worked in the private sector, but wants to start bidding on
government contracts. How do you even start to identify the
sensitive information when they don't have any yet?
A: They might identify RFPs that represent the kind of contracts they will seek. That will
help them consider requirements they must be able to meet and to plan the systems they
would use in doing so. If they are looking to subcontract, they might talk to the Prime
contractor. They might also confer with the contracting officer with the government. They
might also confer with a PTAC (Procurement Technical Assistance Center) for guidance.
There are many of these around the country, and they can provide free advice to
organizations looking to do business with the government.
2. While you are doing some consulting work for Consolidated Flange
Company, in the Engineering office, you notice that one of the
packages awaiting pickup by the U.S. Postal Service is marked
with a CUI cover sheet. You inquire about this and are told that the
package contains some technical drawings that are being sent to
one of the company's subcontractors. Are there any potential
problems with this scenario?
A: If the package is awaiting pickup by the U.S. Postal Service, then presumably what
you have seen is the actual package that will be used to ship the drawings. When the
package is moving through the postal system, no CUI markings should be visible from the
outside, as that would provide a clue to a bad actor that the package contains something
they might be interested in intercepting. An inner package with the proper CUI markings
should be completely hidden by outer packaging, so that no CUI marking is visible on the
outer package.
3. When the OSC asks for guidance on proper management of FCI
and CUI, what are the key things you would advise them to do?
A: Answers will vary, but might include: create a physically-controlled environment with
locked doors and file cabinets; segment the network and restrict access to data using
role-based or rule-based access control; implement encryption technologies in your email
system; and sanitize media before disposal.
ACTIVITY 3-1: Looking Up Model Information in the
CMMC Documentation
4. Why does the CMMC Model have multiple levels?
A: The levels take into account the type of information being protected and the complexity
of potential threats, from foundational to expert.
5. What is the definition of "periodically"?
A: The definition is adapted from the Oxford Dictionary. To paraphrase, periodically
simply means regular intervals. Each organization is allowed to define the period that is
best for their business, but for CMMC practices that period can't be longer than a year.
Solutions
--- PAGE 535 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 523
7. Practice number AC.L2-3.13 specifies that the organization should "Control
the flow of CUI in accordance with approved authorizations." At what CMMC
Level would an organization become responsible to demonstrate they follow
this practice?
A: CMMC Level 2 or higher. While you couldanswer this question by looking it up in the CMMC Model
document's List of Practices, that effort really isn't necessary. The second part of the practice number
contains "L2", which tells you that the practice is introduced into the requirements at Level 2.
ACTIVITY 3-2: Defining the CMMC Program and Ecosystem
1. Given all the legal, policy, and cybersecurity regulations that are established,
what unique benefits does the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification
offer?
A: Third-party verification of cybersecurity compliance.
2. From a Prime contractor's point of view, which of the following statements are
true? (Choose two.)
L] CMMC guarantees a DoD contract award.
L] CMMC provides a heightened awareness of sensitive data in internal systems.
CMMC forces non-compliant companies out of the marketplace.
CMMC makes you eligible to bid on DoD contracts.
3. Which of the following are the authorities in the CMMC ecosystem? (Choose
two.)
OSC
OUSD (A&S)
CQA
The Cyber AB
C3PAO
HONOSO
CMMC Marketplace
4. Which of the following is described as an independent, impartial method for
validating the contractor's cybersecurity protections?
© Decentralization of resources
© Third-party review
© Self-certification
O Supplier performance risk system
Solutions
--- PAGE 536 ---
524 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
5. Which of the following best describes the authorized roles of a
CCP and a CCA? (Choose two.)
[|] ACCAcan be a consultant and lead the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a
CCP can only consult for an OSC.
[| ACCAcan be a consultant and serve on the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a
CCP leads the assessment for that same OSC.
A CCP can be an Assessment Team Member for multiple OSCs; while the CCA
leads the Assessment Team for multiple OSCs.
A CCP can be a consultant or serve on the Assessment Team for an OSC; while a
CCA leads the Assessment Team for multiple OSCs.
6. What are the consequences of non-compliance with CMMC?
A: Organizations must be in compliance with CMMC before they will be awarded a
contract. With the phased implementation, organizations already under contract will need
to seek certification or risk losing their contracts when due for renewal. Other legal
liabilities, including the False Claims Act, might also be a consequence of being out of
compliance with CMMC.
ACTIVITY 3-3: Identifying the Risks of Inaccurate Self-
Assessments
2. What is the charge against Aerojet Rocketdyne?
A: Brian Markus, the former senior director of Cybersecurity, Compliance, and Controls at
Aerojet Rocketdyne, charged the company with violating the False Claims Act. Markus
claimed that the company fraudulently entered into contracts with the federal government
knowing that they were not in compliance with the regulations in 48 CFR 252.204-7012
and 48 CFR 1852.204-76.
3. Which of the arguments that Aerojet Rocketdyne attempted to use
in an effort to dismiss the case surprised you?
A: Answers may vary. The claim that cybersecurity regulations were not the core of the
contract was a surprise. And the claim that the government's constant changes to the
regulations meant they didn't really expect full compliance was a shock. Both indicate a
wholesale rejection of the importance of the contractor's responsibility to protect the
sensitive government information that is provided and created under a defense contract.
4. Explain the court's ruling and the ramifications it has for self-
attestation.
A: The Court has not issued a final ruling. They have rejected the motion to dismiss,
which indicates that organizations that claim self-attestation to cybersecurity regulations
and requirements are legally obligated to be in compliance and can be held accountable
under the False Claims Acct.
Solutions
--- PAGE 537 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 525
5. What are the consequences with the court case still being unsettled six years
after the noncompliance was reported?
A: Unless Aerojet Rocketdyne has changed their business practices, the sensitive data is still potentially
unprotected.
Note: On July 8, 2022, the Department of Justice announced in a press release
t that the Aerojet Rocketdyne lawsuit had been settled (https://
om www.justice.gov/opa/pr/aerojet-rocketdyne-agrees-pay-9-million-resolve-false-
claims-act-allegations-cybersecurity).
6. Which of the following statements about self-assessment are accurate?
(Choose two.)
Self-assessment enables organizations to officially declare their compliance with cybersecurity
regulations without third-party verification.
L] Mandatory procurement clauses and cybersecurity regulations must be explicit in a contract as
governed by the Christian Doctrine.
L] Before CMMC, the government was unable to prosecute those who were less than honest about
their self-assessment scores.
The False Claims Act provides some protection against those who knowingly defraud the
government; but it is not a sufficient nor an efficient method of protection.
ACTIVITY 4-1: Identifying the Responsibilities of a CCP
1. When you were preparing to become a CCP, you were working for Better
Industries Inc., helping them identify gaps in their effort to obtain CMMC Level
2 Certification. After obtaining your CCP certification, you left Better Industries
and took a position with the Best Group, a CMMC Third-Party Assessment
Organization (C3PAO). Now, Better Industries is undergoing the Assessment
process, and the Best Group that will be managing Better Industries' CMMC
Level 2 Assessment. Since you are no longer employed by Better Industries,
you reason that it is acceptable for you to serve on the Assessment Team. Is
your reasoning correct?
A: No, it isn't proper for you to participate on the Assessment Team. This would present a conflict of
interest.
2. Narrow Valley Industries (NVI) obtains more than half of its business through
government contracts. Since compliance with government regulations and
policies is so important to their business, they have decided it would be
helpful to have someone in their organization who is thoroughly familiar with
CMMC. They have offered a position in their company to your colleague,
Dave Farragut, who is a CCP. Will Dave be able to retain his CCP certification
if he accepts the position at NVI?
A: Yes, he may continue to retain his certification and serve as a cybersecurity team member for NVI.
Of course, he would not be able to serve in any way that would cause a conflict of interest. For example,
he would not be able to serve on an Assessment Team evaluating NVI. Furthermore, NVI might not
want Dave acting as a consultant to other companies, but that's a matter between NVI and Dave. Dave
will still have to be mindful of any such requests, though, as any arrangements that appear to be in
violation of the Code of Professional Conduct could put his CCP certification in jeopardy.
Solutions
--- PAGE 538 ---
526 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
3. As a CCP and external consultant, you have been helping the
Capstan Company perform a gap analysis as they prepare for
CMMC Level 2 Certification. Because you are also knowledgeable
in computer networking and cybersecurity, they would like you to
help them redesign their network to create a "secure enclave" in
one wing of their building where all government projects will be
worked on, isolated from people and systems in other parts of the
building. As a CCP functioning as an external consultant, are you
permitted to provide this type of technical consulting?
A: Yes. As a CCP working as a consultant, it is assumed that you may have considerable
influence over technical aspects of your clients' network, as well as on operation and
business decisions.
ACTIVITY 4-2: Looking Up Ethical Guidelines in the
CoPC
4. If you find yourself in an unavoidable situation that leads to the
appearance of a conflict of interest, how should you proceed?
A: You should always consider how any situation might lead to a real or perceived conflict
of interest. Section 2.2 Objectivity states that, "In the case where a perceived or
management conflict may be present, document and describe the conflict to all affected
parties and secure agreement to continue."
. In the past, you have performed services for Develetech
Corporation. They have requested the organization you work for (a
C3PAO) to conduct their CMMC Assessment. You are not clear on
whether the work you have done for them would constitute a
conflict of interest. Identify where you can find any statements in
the Code of Professional Conduct that might help you determine
what would constitute a conflict of interest.
A: Section 3.1 Professionalism, Item 9 states, "Under no circumstances are credentialed
or registered individuals permitted to conduct a certified assessment, or participate on a
certified assessment team, if they have also served as a consultant to prepare the
organization for that assessment. Consulting is defined as ‘providing direct assistance to
the creation of processes, training, and technology required to meet the intent of CMMC
controls and processes." If the work you performed for Develetech previously had
nothing to do with the processes, training, and technology that would now help them to
meet CMMC requirements, there might not be a conflict of interest. However, even when
you know there isn't any conflict of interest, it is always wise to consider when there might
be an appearancef such. If you identify potential for so much as a perceiveconflict of
interest, you may opt to address it beforehand (see Step 4 of this activity) or simply
choose not to take on the assignment.
Solutions
--- PAGE 539 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 527
8. You suspect that one of your colleagues might be in violation of the CoPC.
How does the CoPC recommend that you deal with such a situation?
A: You should first take this matter up directly with your colleague. If your colleague does not resolve
the problem, then you should report the problem to The Cyber AB. Section 4.1 Response for Potential
Violations, Item 1 recommends, "When observing colleagues making choices that are in violation of the
CoPC, you should privately request clarification or offer help rectify the violation. However, if clarification
or help is not effective to resolve the issue, or if you believe corrective action is required to resolve the
situation, then it is expected that you will submit a report."
9. How would you handle this suspected violation with your co-worker? You
notice that your co-worker, Todd, has been meeting with the OSC, after
business hours each day of the assessment. Todd is in charge of reviewing
the policies, processes, and procedures being used as evidence for some of
the Assessment Objectives, and you noticed that all have been updated in the
evenings. You have a feeling Todd has been working with the OSC to update
their policies, processes, and procedures.
A: The first step you should take is to casually approach Todd and say "Hey, Todd, | noticed the OSC's
documentation has been updated every night, and they look way different than what | saw during the
day. What do you think about that?" Now, if you have witnessed Todd being cut a check by the OSC
that was most decidedly not for the assessment that is taking place, and Todd has a temper, it is not
recommended that you reach out to Todd regarding the check or his activities after work.
ACTIVITY 5-1: Using the CMMC Scoping Guidance
2. Based on the scenario above, which Scoping Guidance document (Level 1 or
Level 2) would be applicable?
A: Level 2, because CUI (biometric data and payment information) is being processed and stored for the
U.S. Government.
3. Which CMMC Asset Categories would likely apply?
A: CUI and Specialized Assets
4. Would the cloud-based environment be considered in/out of scope? Why?
A: This is a tricky question and is intended to encourage students to follow the information to determine
the answer. We know that biometric and payment information is hosted on GovCloud *and* that this
data are likely CUI, which means that the environment would be "in scope". Access to the GovCloud is
managed by the USG, however, tenants are responsible for assuring security controls are implemented
in all systems and access points from the device TO the cloud. There are implications in this: the
devices and access to the devices are controlled, that accounts accessing the data are in fact
authorized, and that they still have a business need for such data. Some Assessment Objectives (e.g.,
"AC.L2-3.1.3 - CONTROL CUI FLOW") may be a shared responsibility. OSCs are encouraged to
develop a shared responsibility matrix delineating roles and responsibilities related to the Assessment
Objectives.
5. What assets are in scope for a Level 1 self-assessment?
A: Assets that process, store, or transmit FCI are included in the self-assessment scope.
Solutions
--- PAGE 540 ---
528 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
6. Based on the broad definition of FCI Assets, which of the following
statements best describes the self-assessment scope?
O The self-assessment scope must include everything in the OSC's environment.
O The self-assessment scope must include all government property.
© The self-assessment scope will probably include everything in the OSC's
environment.
© The self-assessment scope will include only Specialized Assets.
. Describe the four types of assets and provide examples of each.
A: People refers to personnel, such as employees, contractors, vendors, and external
service providers. Technology refers to the systems involved in processing, storing, and
transmitting FCl and CUI, such as servers, network appliances, database systems, and
mobile devices. Facilities refers to the physical locations, such as office buildings, server
rooms, datacenters, and secured rooms. External Service Providers (ESPs) refers to the
people, technology, or facilities provided by an organization that is outside of the OSC.
. Comparing the two scoping documents, what are some differences
between the self-assessment scope and the Level 2 Assessment
Scope?
A: The Level 2 Assessment Scope document has more detailed information because
there are more assets included at the higher level. You will find descriptions of the five
Asset Categories and the requirements that contractors must satisfy for each Asset
Category. Also included at Level 2 is guidance on defining the CMMC Assessment
Scope, separation techniques, and External Service Provider considerations.
. Similar to FCI Assets, CUI Assets are defined as assets that
process, store, or transmit CUI. What are the additional
requirements that an OSC must satisfy when dealing with CUI
Assets?
A: The contractor, or OSC, must document CUI Assets in an asset inventory, in the SSP,
and provide a network diagram of the Assessment Scope. This additional CUI Asset
information will be used during scoping discussions in the pre-assessment process.
10.Which Level 2 assets are assessed against CMMC practice
CA.L2-3.12.4? (Choose two.)
L] Security Protection Assets
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
L] CUl Assets
Specialized Assets
11.Which Level 2 assets are assessed against all applicable CMMC
practices? (Choose two.)
HOOOUNSAN
CUI Assets
Security Protection Assets
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
Specialized Assets
Solutions
--- PAGE 541 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 529
ACTIVITY 5-2: Taking Inventory of the OSC Environment
4. According to the inventory, is the Gusto HR System accessible to the public?
© Yes
O No
5. In cell E3, why do you suppose Dave Farragut wrote "N/A" regarding Gusto's
virtual machine capabilities and simply "Gusto" regarding the Datacenter,
Subnet/VLAN, and Responsible Technical Point of Contact?
A: Since Gusto is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offering, the OSC probably does not know that level
of detail, and probably doesn't need to know it, since they don't directly control it. For now, it will suffice
to leave “N/A” in the Virtual Machine(s) field and "Gusto" for the other columns, since they are Gusto's
responsibility.
6. In regard to the question in column I, the system owner is the individual or
role within the organization that asked for the system to be stood up and is
also typically the primary user of the system. Who should you list as the
System Owner for the HR System?
A: You don’t have enough information. It seems from the information you've been given that it is
probably Chris, but you need to go back to the OSC to gather that information. You should also
encourage the OSC to assign different technical and system owners. While not required, and
sometimes unavoidable, this gives better visibility and accountability across the organization.
ACTIVITY 5-3: Taking Inventory of laaS Assets
3. When it comes to scoping, how is the development environment significantly
different from Gusto, Office 365, and QuickBooks?
A: The difference is the (expected) presence/absence of FCI and CUI. We know from the fact pattern
that there is FCl and CUI in the dev environment. Gusto "just" has HR information in it, which shouldn't
have FCI or CUI in it. In the fact pattern, we looked at the information in QuickBooks and determined
that there wasn't any FCI or CUI in there, either. That's why they are out of scope. Office 365 and Dev,
though, have FCI and CUI, so they are in scope. If you want to wade into the waters of inheritance, you
could contrast the controls that Office 365 will inherit versus those the dev environment will inherit. The
Office 365 environment is likely to inherit more of the certification than the AWS environment due to the
OSC's ability to deviate from/change those controls.
4. The datacenter is physically located in the U.S. Is this relevant to the security
of government-owned information?
A: To some extent, the location of the datacenter is relevant. However, the issue isn't just the physical
location of the resources, it also is who has administrative control over the resources. In this case,
although it is in the US-East region, the administrators could be in the U.S., Canada, China, India, etc.
Ironically, this isn't really an issue under CMMC except when it comes to export-controlled information.
Systems containing export-controlled information must only be administered by U.S. citizens (no non-
U.S. citizens, including green card holders).
Solutions
--- PAGE 542 ---
530 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
5. AWS and Office 365 are both cloud-based external service
providers that are in scope because they process, store, or
transmit FCI. What does that mean for Rudison as they move
forward in their level 1 self-assessment?
A: Rudison needs to build shared responsibility matrices for both companies that include
all the assessment objectives for the Level 1 practices so that they are clear on what the
ESPs are responsible for and what they are responsible for.
ACTIVITY 5-5: Identifying Where FCI Is Likely to Be
Found
1. Is FCI likely to be on the WordPress site?
A: Our analysis did not determine that the WordPress site would be used to create or
receive any FCI. Let’s now validate this by looking at it from a systems perspective. The
WordPress site is a marketing site. It talks about Rudison and its capabilities. If it isn’t
used to send or receive files or other information, is it likely to contain FCI? Probably not.
So, we can feel pretty confident that the WordPress site can be excluded from the
Assessment scope boundary.
2. What about QuickBooks?
A: Our analysis did not identify any FCI that would be stored in QuickBooks. Let’s look at
it from a systems perspective to confirm. In some cases, shipping information, employee
names and contact information, or other information that would go into an accounting
system might be nonpublic and, therefore, would need to be treated as FCI. So, did we
miss something? It depends on the nature of the data that will be received. It is good to
flag issues such as this as needing additional discussions with the OSC. For our
purposes, we will assume that Rudison has been told that the contract information will
only be public information (e.g., only the information in Beta.SAM.gov) and, therefore, is
not FCl. That means that QuickBooks is not in scope of an eventual CMMC Assessment.
3. What about Gusto?
A: Our analysis did not identify any FCI that would be stored in Gusto. Let’s look at it from
a systems perspective to confirm. Gusto provides HR and payroll services. Is HR or
payroll information likely to contain FCI? Probably not. Payroll and HR information is
proprietary to Rudison, but it probably won’t contain FCI. In some cases, such as where a
services company is working for the government on a time and materials basis, the notes
that accompany each employee’s billing records may contain FCI. Again, this is
something that you will need to confirm on a case-by-case basis with the OSC. For our
purposes, we will assume that Gusto does not contain any FCI.
4. How about the AWS environment?
A: Our analysis indicated that the AWS development environment would be used to
create FCI. Looking at this from a systems perspective, we know that the FCI software
will be developed in that environment. So yes, it will be in the Assessment scope.
5. Will the Office 365 environment contain FCI?
A: Our analysis showed that, at a minimum, the SharePoint site, emails, and OneDrive
would contain FCI. Looking at this from a systems perspective, we know that the Office
365 environment is used to communicate with the government. Therefore, we can be
pretty confident that the Office 365 environment will contain FCI. That means the Office
365 environment will be within the Assessment scope boundary.
Solutions
--- PAGE 543 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 531
6. Are there any other locations where you might find FCI?
A: Yes. You also need to look at end-user devices.
ACTIVITY 5-6: Evaluating FCI and End-User Devices
1. Could these end-user devices potentially be removed from the scope of the
Assessment if the Rudison users worked in a fully VDI (virtual desktop
infrastructure) environment?
A: Potentially, yes. You would need to investigate how the VDI worked, but if the FCI is only accessed
via the end-user device and never actually exists on the device, then the end-user devices could be
moved outside the Assessment scope boundary. If Rudison did employ a fully VDI environment, it would
be up to them to demonstrate to an assessor that the end-user devices should be out of scope. If you
were a CCP helping Rudison to prepare their environment for Assessment, you should help them
understand the advantages and disadvantages these different architecture options pose for the
company.
2. Like most people today, the Rudison employees all have mobile phones, and
they access their Rudison emails from those phones. Will these mobile
devices be within scope for Certification and/or Assessment?
A: You have already established that the emails need to be treated as FCI. Therefore, the mobile
devices will also be in both the Certification and Assessment scope.
3. The Rudison employees all work from home, and their home networks are
very simple. They all use a Wi-Fi router supplied by their Internet providers to
access the Internet and the Rudison shared resources. Are these routers and
home networks in scope?
A: The routers, and the networks they create, are also in scope since they are used to create, store, or
transfer FCI.
4. What about the other devices on their home networks, such as smart phones
owned by other family members?
A: It depends. If the network uses an appropriate separation technique, such as VLANS or separate
subnetworks with routing controls, then the other devices are likely to be out scope for both the
Assessment and Certification, assuming they do not have access to the FCI. If separation techniques
are not used, those devices are likely to still be considered in the Assessment scope but outside the
Certification scope, even though they do not themselves contain any FCI.
ACTIVITY 5-7: Confirming the Systems in Scope
1. Why is the website out of scope?
A: There is no FCI on the website, so we can assume it is out of scope for a CMMC Assessment. You
should document the separation techniques that ensure FCI will not end up on the site. For example: a)
Limit ability to publish content on the site to a single individual; b) Require review and approval of all
posted content required by another individual.
Solutions
--- PAGE 544 ---
532 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
2. Why is QuickBooks out of scope?
A: QuickBooks is out of scope because it should never contain FCI. You need to
document the information that will be contained in QuickBooks, so you can demonstrate
to the Assessment Team why QuickBooks should not be in scope for Assessment. This
can be tricky because we don’t need to make changes to QuickBooks or other overt
actions for us to suddenly wind up storing FCI. Instead, it can happen simply by using the
software as intended. Rudison should be able to demonstrate that they have a practice in
place for keeping FCI out of QuickBooks. Rudison should also periodically review the
information it stores in QuickBooks to ensure FCI is not stored in it. Alternatively, Rudison
could assume QuickBooks is within scope and include it in its CMMC-related efforts.
Why is Gusto out of scope?
A: HR and benefits systems typically do not include FCI. Of course, you should
investigate to be certain that this Gusto instance does not contain FCI. Document the
data contained in Gusto so Rudison can later demonstrate why Gusto should be out of
both the Assessment and Certification scopes.
. Gusto and QuickBooks are integrated, enabling them to share
data. How does this affect scope?
A: Integration is something you need to pay careful attention to when you determine
scope, as it provides a way for sensitive information to move quickly and possibly without
anyone noticing. In this example, since QuickBooks does not contain any FCI and no FCl
is placed directly into Gusto, Gusto inherently cannot contain or have access to FCI.
ACTIVITY 5-8: Using Separation Techniques to Limit
Scope
1. It is intended that no CUI will be stored or processed in the
systems located on the manufacturing floor. Is the manufacturing
floor, therefore, out of scope?
A: No. The NAS being in a separate, access-controlled room helps to limit the physical
scope of the Assessment. However, the fact that the NAS, which contains CUI, is on a
network that is not physically or logically isolated from the manufacturing floor’s network
means the manufacturing floor’s network must also be considered in scope. Furthermore,
while the physical barrier provided by the door with a cipher lock is a good step, CUI will
not be completely protected from unauthorized viewing if there are windows throughout
the office's outer walls.
How can you increase the likelihood that the manufacturing floor
will be considered out of scope by the assessor?
A: To prevent access of the CUI from outside the engineering office, you should segment
the network so the engineering office and manufacturing floor are on separate networks,
and limit network traffic so the NAS can only be accessed from within the engineering
office. By isolating the NAS from access over the machines on the manufacturing floor,
you can take the manufacturing floor out of scope. Any possibility of viewing CUI from
outside the office (through windows, for example) must be eliminated.
Solutions
--- PAGE 545 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 533
ACTIVITY 6-1: Fostering a Mature Cybersecurity Culture
1. What is the relationship between a policy and a procedure?
A: A policy describes the overall characteristics of a required activity. (For example, the purpose, who
needs to follow the policy, and the roles involved in the implementation and the responsibilities of each.)
A policy is focused on the "why" of an organizational action. Procedures explain the "how," providing the
detailed steps necessary to implement a policy on a day-to-day basis.
2. Why do you need a plan as part of governance?
A: Plans are necessary to ensure the ongoing monitoring of the activities mandated in policies and
procedures. A plan provides the details of the implementation timeline, the budget for resource
management, and required training.
3. Why is implementing cultural change a critical step in building cybersecurity
maturity?
A: To achieve real institutionalization of cybersecurity in an organization where all employees
understand they play a role in protecting sensitive information, you have to consciously build such a
culture by obtaining executive support, identifying employees views, and implementing regular
cybersecurity training. Without that institutionalization, policies and procedures are just documents.
4. How does having a mature cybersecurity culture help with a CMMC
Assessment?
A: A CMMC Assessment is more likely to go smoothly when everyone in the OSC understands the
importance of protecting sensitive information and their specific cybersecurity responsibilities. When
cybersecurity is institutionalized and mature, the artifacts an assessor examines will be comprehensive
and clear, the people an assessor interviews will speak knowledgeably about their responsibilities, and
the tests an assessor conducts will demonstrate that the technical controls are correctly and
consistently implemented.
ACTIVITY 6-2: Evaluating Readiness
1. When you return to your company, how might you start helping them
prepare?
A: Answers will vary, depending on the organization, what they do, the CMMC Level they are seeking,
how mature their practices and processes already are, and how far into the process of preparing for
CMMC Assessment they already are. In general, any organization must start by determining what
CMMC Level they are seeking, as this is necessary to determine the practices and processes that will
be evaluated. Also, the organization needs to determine where sensitive information will exist within
their environment, as this will help them identify the Assessment scope. You can inventory the
company's systems to help determine where sensitive information exists and how it flows through the
organization's business processes. Once you have identified what should be considered "in scope", you
can perform a gap analysis against the Level the organization is targeting.
2. You've completed a gap analysis for your company, and you believe you have
helped them close all the gaps. At that point, is the OSC ready for
Assessment, or is there something else that must also be done?
A: It depends on what you did as you closed the gaps. If you updated the Evidence as you closed the
gaps, then the OSC may be ready for Assessment. With all the changes you've made, however, you
may need to circle back and verify that all of the Evidence is indeed in place and up to date.
Solutions
--- PAGE 546 ---
534 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 7-1: Determining Evidence
1. Through discussion with the OSC's IT administrator, you identify
which machines have been configured with a security control that
prevents USB drives from being mounted. What Assessment
method have you used here?
O Examine
O Test
© Interview
2. You insert a thumb drive into a computer's USB port. In this case,
what method are you most likely using to obtain Evidence?
O Examine
© Test
O Interview
3. Next, you have the IT administrator open some configuration
utilities to confirm how the computer was configured to prevent the
USB drive from being mounted. What method are you using to
obtain Evidence in this case?
© Examine
O Test
O Interview
4. You are trying to find Evidence to prove that a particular practice
has been put into place at the OSC. How might you come up with
ideas for the type of Evidence you might use?
A: A good place to begin is by interviewing the people at the OSC who have implemented
the practice in question. Also, you can turn to the CMMC documentation for guidance. For
example, the CMMC Assessment Guide not only identifies the practices that must be
evaluated, it also provides tips regarding the security controls and types of Evidence you
might look for. You can refer to the CMMC Assessment Process (CAP) document for
guidelines on evaluating the quality or suitability of the Evidence you find. Of course, your
own experience working with information systems can also be quite helpful in informing
what type of Evidence you should look for.
ACTIVITY 7-2: Using the CMMC Assessment Guides
2. What is the first CMMC Level 1 practice in the list?
A: AC.L1-3.1.1 is the first practice listed for CMMC Level 1.
Solutions
--- PAGE 547 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 535
3. Read the description of AC.L1-3.1.1. Does this give you enough information
to determine if this is being performed in a client’s environment?
A: The description is "Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf
of authorized users, or devices (including other information systems)." This does not really provide
enough information to determine if this is being performed in the client's environment. The first place to
turn for more guidance is the CMMC Assessment Guides.
6. Why do you think these terms were identified as being important to Level 1
self-assessment?
A: Asset, component, and information systems are terms critical to defining the scope of the self-
assessment. Monitor and organizationally defined are terms used frequently in the practice descriptions
so it is important to know how they are defined in the context of CMMC.
8. If you have lingering questions about AC.L1-3.1.1, where can you find more
information to help you better understand the concepts in this practice?
A: As noted in the Key References section, you can read FAR Clause 52.204-21 b.1.i and also NIST SP
800-171 Rev 2 requirement 3.1.1 to find additional information to further understand the concepts.
ACTIVITY 7-3: Using the CMMC Supplemental Documents
3. What three security controls from NIST SP 800-53 are listed for the Access
Control requirement 3.1.1?
A: AC-2 Account Management, AC-3 Access Enforcement, and AC-17 Remote Access.
5. How might you use this information with your client?
A: This appears to lay out the details of account management in a way that a non-IT person can
understand. You might use these details as a checklist of to-do items to guide your client toward
successfully implementing AC.L1-3.1.1 for CMMC.
ACTIVITY 8-1: Identifying CMMC Level 1 Domains and
Practices
2. How many domains are involved in a Level 1 Assessment? Where did you
find the answer?
A: There are 6 domains involved in a Level 1 Assessment. You can find this by counting number of
times "Level 1" appears in the List of Practices starting on page 9 of the CMMC Model.
3. Against how many practices is an OSC evaluated in a Level 1 Assessment?
Where did you find the answer?
A: There are 17 practices. This is found in Figure 1 and in the List of Practices starting on page 9 of the
CMMC Model.
4. CMMC Level 1's practice requirements are the equivalent of what other
regulation's safeguarding requirements? Where did you find the answer?
A: Level 1 is equivalent to FAR 52.204-21. This can be found on several pages, including pages 6, 7,
and 9.
Solutions
--- PAGE 548 ---
536 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
ACTIVITY 8-3: Analyzing Technical Cybersecurity
Controls
3. Based on the ideas listed in this section of the Assessment Guide,
what methods and objects might you use to prove that access to
the development and collaboration environments is limited to only
authorized users?
A: Looking specifically at Rudison, you could demonstrate that the objective is met by
supplying a list of all employees and their roles in the organization. This is illustrated in
Example 1 a bit further down in the Assessment Guide. It is important to remember that
the assessment method and objects listed are suggested, not mandatory, and that
Rudison doesn’t need to demonstrate that they have every assessment method and
object covered. For example, the assessment methods and objects listed under
AC.L1-3.1.1 in the CMMC Level 1 Self-Assessment Guide come directly from NIST SP
800-171A, and they include looking at procedures addressing account management. In
Level 1, procedures can be performed on an undocumented basis, so assessors should
not expect Rudison to have written processes. In your gap analysis and its associated
POA&M, you do not need to worry about creating written practice documentation.
. The processes referred to in this objective include, for example,
any processes handling automatic updates of software in the
system. Each such process should be associated with the user
who authorized the process to run and should be tracked. So, what
does this mean?
A: As a practical matter, this is a situation in which a user enters credentials into some
software (i.e., a process) and that software does things on the user's behalf. One easy
example of this is a cloud-based backup system. The user has an account in the cloud-
based backup system, and the agent running on the user's computer (or, to use the
language from the practice, the "process acting on behalf of the user") uses that account
to back up the data from the user's computer to the cloud storage. To meet this objective,
we need to be able to demonstrate that we know all of those processes running in the
Rudison systems.
. Based on the information provided, do we know all of the
processes running in the Rudison systems?
A: Not from the information we have been given.
11.Has Rudison identified the devices and other systems authorized
to connect to the system?
A: Rudison knows that only the workstations and mobile devices belonging to Jen, Chris,
and Mark are authorized to connect to the development or collaboration systems. From
the information we've been given, we can't really tell if they have this information stored
somewhere so that an Assessor can see it. So, for now, Objective C will have to be
marked as"Not Yet Addressed". For the purposes of the gap analysis, we might be done
with the analysis of that objective at this point. However, as a practical matter since we
determined that their home computers and networks are in scope, we will also need to
analyze each user's home network to determine if those networks meet the objective.
Based on the information we have been given, we would again have to go with an
implementation status of "Not Yet Addressed" for this objective.
Solutions
--- PAGE 549 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 537
15.How would you demonstrate that Rudison's systems limit access to
authorized users?
A: You can take a screen capture of the accounts in the development and collaboration systems, and
show that only users who are defined in the employee list have accounts in those systems. You can
also show that the end-users’ mobile devices are locked by a password or other identifier (e.g.,
biometrics) and that the users' computers are set up to require the user to log in (i.e., they do not
automatically log in without a password).
17.Are either of the underlying objectives for AC.L1-3.1.2 met? If not, what would
be a good plan of action for meeting them?
A: Rudison has only 3 employees and, given the work they do for the company, they all need access to
the FCI that is in the environment. The "Further Discussion" section of this practice states "Limit users
to only the information systems, roles, or applications they are permitted to use and are needed for their
roles and responsibilities [a]. Limit access to applications and data based on the authorized users' role
and responsibilities [b]. Common types of functions a user can be assigned are create, read, update,
and delete." In Rudison's case, the company limits access to the development and collaboration
environments to only those whose roles and responsibilities require access to such environments. On
the home computers, we know that the users must log in to each device, which limits access to any
applications on those devices to only the logged-in user. Rudison, therefore, limits users to only the
information systems, roles, and applications they are permitted to use and are needed for their roles
and responsibilities, so they have successfully implemented the first objective. We also know that Chris
has access to QuickBooks while the others do not. Therefore, we can demonstrate that although all of
the employees have access to both the development and collaboration environments, it is because they
need access, and that Rudison does limit access to applications and data based on the users' roles and
responsibilities, as evidenced by their QuickBooks implementation. We would collect Evidence,
including screen captures of the QuickBooks access controls, as well as the screen captures and other
information used in AC.L1-3.1.1, to demonstrate the successful adoption.
ACTIVITY 8-4: Analyzing Non-Technical Cybersecurity
Controls
3. For Rudison, do you know which individuals are allowed physical access to
each environment?
A: For their individual homes, that is likely to be each individual. At this point, you may not yet know if
anyone else has access to their home. So, for now we can't mark any of these objectives as “Fully
Implemented” because we need a list of the individuals who are allowed access, and we need to be
able to demonstrate that, at least for the environments containing the FCI, access to those
environments is limited to only the authorized individuals. Remember, too, that we are looking not only
at electronic equipment, such as computers and printers, but also paper copies of documents. Access
to all FCI must be limited to only those with appropriate permissions. For example, we would need to
know who else has keys to their homes. If others, such as a landlord, have keys and can access the
home without their knowledge, we will need to ensure that the environment in which the FCI is stored
(e.g., an office or closet in the home) has additional access controls, such as additional locks, that keep
those other people from accessing the FCI. Once we identify this as a gap, we then turn to closing the
gaps. In this case, we would help Rudison create lists of the different environments, who has access to
them, and how they are protected.
4. Once we've analyzed their home environments, are we finished with
PE.L1-3.10.1?
A: No, we aren't. Rudison has data in the collaboration and development environments, too. Those are
maintained by Microsoft and Amazon, respectively.
Solutions
--- PAGE 550 ---
538 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
5. So, how do we demonstrate that those environments have
appropriate physical access controls in place?
A: In some cases, service providers like Amazon and Microsoft will have their
environments CMMC-certified as well. An assessor may accept their certification as
evidence that they are meeting certain practices, like PE.L1-3.10.1. It should be noted,
however, that assessors may not accept certifications, on their own, as evidence for
some practices which are more implementation-specific. In some cases, Rudison will
need to work with the service provider to obtain the necessary Evidence to demonstrate
that the control is met. For our purposes, since neither Amazon nor Microsoft have
environments that are CMMC-certified at this time, and since Rudison does not have
other evidence that the environments meet the physical access control requirements, this
practice would have to remain in a state other than "Fully Implemented" until this
information is obtained.
7. Does Rudison have the information we need to mark any of these
practices as "Fully Implemented"?
A: We do not have enough information yet. We will have to work with the Rudison team to
find out additional details and write plans of action and milestones to fill any identified
gaps. It is evident that Rudison already has some homework to do before they will be
ready for an Assessment.
ACTIVITY 8-5: Assessing a CMMC Level 1 Practice
2. Does the AC.L1-3.1.20 practice make sense on its own, or do you
need to review informative references for additional information?
A: The Discussion section does a good job of outlining the perspective from which each
of the AC.L1-3.1.20 objectives should be understood.
4. Which column(s) contain Evidence for each of the objectives?
A: In the worksheet, columns F, G, and H contain Evidence for AC.L1-3.1.20 objectives.
5. Has Rudison provided multiple forms of Evidence for each
objective?
A: Yes, each objective for AC.L1-3.1.20 contains information for at least two of the three
forms (Examine, Interview, Test).
7. Do you have any concerns with the descriptions and whether they
are likely to demonstrate adoption of the objective? If so, please
explain.
A: In objective [d], the CMMC Assessment Guide references ensuring that only
authorized external systems are connecting, and one of the examples they give is to
determine whether the contractor is "...checking to verify that only known/expected
devices are connecting." Rudison is suggesting that the use of MFA meets this objective.
The use of MFA helps ensure that only authorized individuals can access the information,
but a Certified CMMC Assessor may not accept this as a valid means of verifying that
"only known/expected devices are connecting."
Solutions
--- PAGE 551 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 539
8. Now look at how Rudison plans to demonstrate adoption of each objective
under the Interview and Test Assessment methods. Do the suggested
interviews and tests seem likely to demonstrate that the entirety of each
objective is met?
A: Yes, probably.
10.When viewed in their entirety, do the files demonstrate that all aspects of
each objective have been met? Why or why not?
A: No. There are a few issues, including the fact that the screen captures purportedly from Chris' and
Jen's home routers are actually copies of Mark's. When the OSC pulls together Evidence, you need to
pay attention to such details to ensure that no surprises are found, which might jeopardize the OSC's
self-assessment.
ACTIVITY 9-1: Identifying Level 2 Practices
2. Which characteristic of the CMMC Model best describes the rationale for
Level 1 practices being included in the Level 2 Certification?
O — Institutionalized
© Cumulative
© Restrictive
O Documented
3. It is often stated that human behavior is the biggest risk to cybersecurity.
Which Level 2 practice ensures that new employees have been properly
vetted to guarantee that they can be trusted to handle CUI? Where in the AG
did you find the answer?
A: Personnel Security Domain Practice PS.L2-3.9.1. The Discussion section lists the individual
characteristics that attest to a person's trustworthiness.
5. As part of the Assessment, you are interviewing the OSC's legal counsel
about the organization's privacy and security notices for CUI rules. What
practice are you assessing?
A: AC.L2-3.1.9. One of the assessment methods lists interviewing personnel who are responsible for
providing legal advice to determine if the privacy and security notices required by CUI rules are
identified.
ACTIVITY 10-1: Identifying Assessment Roles and
Responsibilities
1. Would you recommend Tom Smith as an Assessment Team Member? Yes or
no, and why?
A: No. The proposed candidate lacks the prerequisite experience and his relationship as the son of the
business owner may influence his decision making and diminish his objectivity.
Solutions
--- PAGE 552 ---
540 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
2. Who is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
the Assessment Results Package?
O Lead Assessor
O CCP
© CQAP
O C3PAO
Who oversees and manages the individuals involved and the
phases of a CMMC Assessment for a particular OSC?
O CCP
© Lead Assessor
O CQAP
O C3PAO
ACTIVITY 10-2: Planning for an Assessment
. What can an Assessment Team do to foster a positive Assessment
culture?
A: To foster a positive Assessment culture, an Assessment Team should research the
company beforehand so that they can respect its unique context. They should be
respectful, professional, and kind at all times, remembering that they are guests of the
OSC and that they have a partnership with the OSC with the common cause of protecting
the country's military supply chain. They should be patient, asking questions in a different
way if their first requests for information aren't understood.
Does this scenario include the proper initial steps in the
Assessment Process?
A: It is correct for the OSC to contact a C3PAO asking for an Assessment. However, all
Assessments must be led by a Lead Assessor who is a CCA, not a CCP. Another
problem in the scenario is that there should be a lot of planning before a site visit.
Does this scenario include the proper initial steps in the
Assessment Process?
A: Yes. It is crucial to confirm that the OSC is truly ready for an Assessment, by validating
the scope boundary and doing a Certification Assessment Readiness Review (CA-RR).
Is this an acceptable action during a Certification Assessment
Readiness Review?
A: No, it is not acceptable. During a CA-RR that is conducted as part of the preparation
for an Assessment, a CCP or CCA can point out that there is missing Evidence, but they
can't make a specific suggestion on how to fix the issue.
Solutions
--- PAGE 553 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 541
ACTIVITY 10-3: Participating on an Assessment Team
1. Does this scenario include the proper steps for an on-site visit?
A: No. In addition to these two sessions, it is recommended that the Lead Assessor conducts daily
checkpoints to keep the Assessment on track.
2. Based on this scenario, what are your actions?
A: As an Assessment Team Member, you must ensure that your actions support effective Assessment
characteristics (objective, fair, consistent, reliable), that your review of the Evidence is consistent with
the CAP, and that you adhere to the CoPC at all times. In this scenario, the information should be
shared with the Assessment Team to support effective practice characterization.
ACTIVITY 10-4: Reporting the Assessment Results
1. Does this scenario include the proper final steps in the Assessment Process?
A: Yes. The scenario includes all the necessary components of the Assessment Results Package and
the destruction/archival of the artifacts. It also includes details about the fact that the Assessment Team
notes and Final Assessment Results Package must be maintained by the Lead Assessor for a period of
three years.
2. Following the Assessment, another CCP asks if he/she may maintain a copy
of the findings as "they may be useful for future Assessments." Is this
permissible?
A: No; The Final Assessment Results Package is an artifact of the Assessment and is proprietary to the
OSC. As such, it can not be removed.
ACTIVITY 10-5: Defining the POA&M Close-Out Process
1. Based on this scenario, which CMMC practice would apply?
A: AC.L2-3.1.9 Provide privacy and security notices consistent with applicable CUI rules.
2. Would the practice be Met or Not Met?
A: Not Met.
3. Provided that this is the only practice determined to be Not Met, could a
POA&M be employed? If so, what steps would be taken to validate:
A: Yes. Validation would be conducted by the Lead Assessor with input from the Assessment Team,
CCP, and/or OSC and should minimally include: a) The specific security weakness revealed in the
Assessment and tied to a specific practice, b) The severity of the weakness, c) The scope of each
weakness with the assessed environment. d) The proposed mitigation approaches. e) The estimated
costs for remediation. f) Documented records of mitigation status and delays, and g) A risk assessment
of the deficiency.
4. As a CCP, what additional support might you provide?
A: As a CCP, you may be asked to support the review of new evidence and the Close-Out Assessment
of authorized POA&M items.
Solutions
--- PAGE 554 ---

--- PAGE 555 ---
Glossary
acquisitions
The acquiring by contract with
appropriated funds of supplies or services
(including construction) by and for the use
of the Federal Government through
purchase or lease, whether the supplies or
services are already in existence or must be
created, developed, demonstrated, and
evaluated. Source: 48 CFR § 2.101.
artifacts
Tangible and reviewable records that are
the direct outcome of a practice or process
being performed by a system, person or
persons performing a role in that practice,
control, or process. Artifacts can be a
printed hard copy, soft- or electronic copy
of a document or file or embedded in a
system or software but must be a result or
output from performing a process in the
OSC. Source: CMMC Assessment Process.
assessment boundary
Identifies all assets in the contractor's
environment for the assessment
engagement. Assets within the assessment
boundary can be part of the CMMC
Certification Boundary or Enabling Assets.
Assessment Objective
(AO). Identifies the specific set of
objectives that must be met to receive
MET for the practice as defined in NIST
SP 800-171A. Source: CMMC Self-
Assessment Guide Level 1.
Assessment Team Member
Individuals performing the Assessment
and working under the leadership of a
CCA. The team members can include
CCPs, CCAs, as well as other non-certified
individuals such as technical writers and
project managers.
asset
Anything that has value to an organization,
including, but not limited to, another
organization, person, computing device,
information technology (IT) system, IT
network, IT circuit, software (both an
installed instance and a physical instance),
virtual computing platform (common in
cloud and virtualized computing), and
related hardware (e.g., locks, cabinets,
keyboards). Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms (NISTIR 7693, NISTIR 7694).
awareness
A learning process that sets the stage for
training by changing individual and
organizational attitudes to realize the
importance of security and the adverse
consequences of its failure. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-16).
awareness and training program
Explains proper rules of behavior for the
use of agency information systems and
information. The program communicates
information technology (IT) security
policies and procedures that need to be
followed. (i.e., NSTISSD 501, NIST SP
800-50). Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms (CNSSI 4009).
--- PAGE 556 ---
544 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
C3PAO
(CMMC Third-Party Assessment
Organization). An authorized and
independent conformity-Assessment body
that contracts with the OSC to conduct
CMMC Assessments and issues the
CMMC Certification.
CA-RR
(Certification Assessment Readiness
Review). An evaluation that determines the
OSC's readiness and reasonableness to
process with the on-site Assessment.
CAP
(CMMC Assessment Process).
CCA
(Certified CMMC Assessor). Individuals
with background, training, and
examination requirements outlined by The
Cyber AB trained to conduct Assessments
up to a specific CMMC Level.
CCl
(Certified CMMC Instructor). Individuals
who are authorized to train CCPs and
CCAs.
CCMI
(Certified CMMC Master Instructor).
Individuals who train the instructors who
want to become CCIs.
CCP
(Certified CMMC Professional).
Individuals credentialed as understanding
the requirements of CMMC for a DoD
supplier.
CDI
(Covered Defense Information). Term
used to identify information that requires
protection under DFARS Clause
252.204-7012. Unclassified CTI or other
information, as described in the CUI
Registry, that requires safeguarding or
dissemination controls pursuant to and
consistent with the law, regulations, and
government-wide policies. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (DFARS Clause
252.204-7012).
Glossary
CMMC
(Cybersecurity Maturity Model
Certification).
CMMC Certification Boundary
Defines the assets to which an assessor will
evaluate conformity with applicable
CMMC practices. This is the boundary to
which a CMMC certificate will be applied.
CMMC Marketplace
Centralized access point for Organizations
Seeking Certification (OSCs) or anyone
else who wants to find organizations and
individuals in the CMMC ecosystem.
CMMC Standard
A framework that combines various
cybersecurity standards and best practices
and maps those controls and processes
across several maturity levels that range
from basic to advanced cyber hygiene, and
that, when implemented, will reduce risk
against a specific set of cyber threats.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms.
confidentiality
Preserving authorized restrictions on
information access and disclosure,
including means for protecting personal
privacy and proprietary information.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
(44 U.S. Code Sec 3542).
configuration management
A collection of activities focused on
establishing and maintaining the integrity
of information technology products and
systems, through control of processes for
initializing, changing, and monitoring the
configurations of those products and
systems throughout the system
development life cycle. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-53
Rev 5).
conflict of interest
A situation where an individual has
competing obligations that might lead to
compromises in decision-making and
damage to the integrity of the outcome.
--- PAGE 557 ---
contractor
Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, or other legal non-Federal entity
that enters into a contract directly with the
DoD to furnish services, supplies, or
construction. Also referred to as a Defense
contractor or Prime contractor. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (32 CFR
158.3).
CoPC
(Code of Professional Conduct). A document
signed by all individuals in the CMMC
ecosystem that defines the expectations,
responsibilities, and guidelines for performing
work on behalf of the DoD and The Cyber
AB.
COTS
(Commercial Off-the-Shelf). Packaged
software and hardware solutions that already
exist and are available for purchase by the
public.
CQAP
(CMMC Quality Assurance Professional).
Individuals who are responsible for ensuring
the completeness and accuracy of the
Assessment documentation.
CTI
(Controlled Technical Information). Technical
information with military or space application
that is subject to controls on the access, use,
reproduction, modification, performance,
display, release, disclosure, or dissemination.
Source: DFARS Clause 252.204-7012.
CUI
(Controlled Unclassified Information).
Information that requires safeguarding or
dissemination controls pursuant to and
consistent with law, regulations, and
government-wide policies, excluding
information that is classified under Executive
Order 13526, Classified National Security
Information, December 29, 2009, or any
predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (E.O. 13556
(adapted)).
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 545
cybersecurity
Prevention of damage to, protection of, and
restoration of computers, electronic
communications systems, electronic
communications services, wire communication,
and electronic communication, including
information contained therein, to ensure its
availability, integrity, authentication,
confidentiality, and nonrepudiation. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NSPD-54/
HSPD-23).
data integrity
Property that data has not been altered in an
unauthorized manner. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-33).
decontrolling
What occurs when an authorized holder,
consistent with CUI regulations and the CUI
Registry, removes safeguarding and
dissemination controls from CUI that no
longer requires such controls. Sources: 32 CFR
2002.18 and NARA CUI Registry.
DFARS
(Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
Supplement). A supplement of the FAR that
includes policies and procedures that apply
only to acquisition activities by the Department
of Defense.
DFARS 252.204-7012
Safeguarding Covered Defense Information
and Cyber Incident Reporting.
DIB
(Defense Industrial Base). The worldwide
industrial complex that enables research and
development, as well as design, production,
delivery, and maintenance of military weapons
systems, subsystems, and components or parts,
to meet U.S. military requirements. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (DIB Sector-
Specific Plan, DHS CISA).
dissemination control
Method of managing sensitive information
distribution so that it doesn't spread more
widely than allowed by law, regulation, or
government-wide policy.
Glossary
--- PAGE 558 ---
546 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
DMZ
(demilitarized zone). A small section of a
private network that is located between two
firewalls and made available for public access.
DoD
(Department of Defense). Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms.
Domain
A grouping of like practices based on the 14
control families set forth in NIST SP 800-171.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms.
ECI
(Export-Controlled Information). Any
information or material that cannot be released
to foreign nationals or representatives of a
foreign entity, without first obtaining approval
or license from the Dept. of State for items
controlled by ITAR or the Dept. of Commerce
for items controlled by the Export
Administration Regulations (EAR).
eMASS
(Enterprise Mission Assurance Support
Service). A web-based U.S. Department of
Defense off-the-shelf solution that automates a
broad range of services for cybersecurity
management. CMMC eMASS serves as the
system of record for CMMC Assessment data
and reporting.
Enabling Asset
An asset that provides security functions or
capabilities to the contractor's CMMC
Certification Boundary to support the
implementation of CMMC practices. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms.
enclave
A segmentation of an organization's network
or data that is intended to "wall off" that
network or database from all other networks or
systems. An Assessment can be conducted
within the boundaries of an enclave.
encryption
The process of changing plaintext into cipher
text. Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms
(NISTIR 7621 Rev 1, CNSSI 4009).
Glossary
Evidence
The body of data, or "proof," that an
organization either meets or does not meet the
objectives of the domain, control, or processes.
Evidence Validation
An evaluation that examines sufficiency of
Evidence presented by the OSC, ensuring it
meets the intent and objectives of the control
or practice.
examine
The process of reviewing, inspecting,
observing, studying, or analyzing assessment
objects (1.e., specifications, mechanisms,
activities). Source: CMMC Assessment Guide -
Level 2.
FAR
(Federal Acquisition Regulations). Chapter 1 of
Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Provides uniform policies and procedures that
apply to all executive agencies regarding
acquisitions.
FAR 52.204-21
48 CFR § 52.204-21 - Basic Safeguarding of
Covered Contractor Information Systems. Also
called FAR 52.
FCI
(Federal Contract Information). Federal
contract information means information, not
intended for public release, that is provided by
or generated for the Government under a
contract to develop or deliver a product or
service to the Government, but not including
information provided by the Government to
the public (such as on public websites) or
simple transactional information, such as
necessary to process payments. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (48 CFR § 52.204-21).
FedRAMP
(Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program).
FISMA
Act).
(Federal Information Security Management
--- PAGE 559 ---
Gap Analysis
An evaluation that examines the organization's
processes "as performed" to identify issues,
impediments, and potential risks to sustained
implementation.
governance
The policies, processes, and controls that are
utilized by the OSC to assure sustainment and
continual improvement with respect to
detection, prevention, and response to cyber
incidents.
headquarters (HQ) organization
The legal entity that will be delivering services
or products under the terms of a DoD
contract. Source: CMMC Assessment Process,
version 5.4.
host unit
The specific people, procedures, and
technology within an HQ Organization that
would be applied to the DoD contract and that
are to be considered as the OSC for CMMC
Assessment purposes. Source: CMMC
Assessment Process, version 5.4.
information flow
The flow of information or connectivity from
one location to another. This can be related to
data as well as connectivity from one system to
another, or from one security domain to
another. The authorization granting permission
for information flow comes from a control
authority granting permission to an entity,
asset, role, or group. Source: CMMC Glossary
and Acronyms.
institutionalization
The action of establishing something as a
convention or norm in an organization or
culture. Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms (Oxford Dictionary).
interview
The process of holding discussions with
individuals or groups of individuals to facilitate
understanding, achieve clarification, or obtain
evidence. Source: CMMC Assessment Guide -
Level 2.
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 547
IP
(Intellectual Property). A work or invention,
such as a design, process, computer program,
or trade secret developed through work of the
mind or intellect, which may be protected
through legal mechanisms such as patent,
copyright, and trademark, or by taking steps to
keep the information secret.
ISO/IEC
The International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) is an independent, non-
governmental international organization of
national standards bodies. The International
Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a global
organization for the preparation and
publication of international standards for all
electrical, electronic, and related technologies.
Together the ISO/IEC publish international
standards.
ISOO
(Information Security Oversight Office). Part
of NARA responsible to the President for
policy and oversight of the Government-wide
security classification system and the National
Industrial Security Program. Authority on
protection of CUI.
lawful government purpose
Any activity, mission, function, operation, or
endeavor that the U.S. Government authorizes
or recognizes as within the scope of its legal
authorities or the legal authorities of non-
executive branch entities (such as state and
local law enforcement). Source: 32 CFR
2002.4.
Lead Assessor
The CCA who overseas and manages the
Assessment Team during a CMMC
Assessment for a particular OSC.
LPP
(Licensed Partner Publisher). Organization
authorized to publish CMMC training
curricula.
LTP
(Licensed Training Provider). Organization
authorized to train registered or certified
CMMC individuals.
Glossary
--- PAGE 560 ---
548 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Maturity Model
A model that assesses how institutionalized
critical practices and processes are in an
organization and helps determine what
capabilities they need in order to continue to
improve their performance.
media sanitization
The actions taken to render data written on
media unrecoverable by both ordinary and
extraordinary means. Source: CMMC Glossary
and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-88 Rev 1).
MFA
(multifactor authentication). A mechanism that
provides for added protection of data through
electronic methods.
NARA
(National Archives and Records
Administration).
NDA
Non-disclosure agreement. A contract by
which one or more parties agree not to disclose
confidential information that they have shared
with each other as a necessary part of doing
business together.
network segmentation
The use of physical devices such as firewalls or
logical separation such as subnetting to create
distinct segments in your internal network.
NIST
(National Institutes of Standards and
Technology).
NIST SP 800-171
Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information
in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations.
NIST SP 800-171A
Assessing Security Requirements For
Controlled Unclassified Information.
NIST SP 800-172
Enhanced Security Requirements for
Protecting Controlled Unclassified
Information: A Supplement to NIST SP
800-171.
Glossary
NIST SP 800-53
Security and Privacy Controls for Information
Systems and Organizations.
non-duplication
A planning step that allows consideration of
commonalities between cyber security
certifications and/or relevant industry
standards when planning a CMMC Assessment
to minimize duplication of effort.
observation
A real-time demonstration or review of a test,
system, tool, software, hardware, practice,
control, or process being performed and
witnessed first-hand by the CCA and, if
applicable, the Assessment Team. Source:
CMMC Assessment Process.
OSC
(Organization Seeking Certification).
Organization going through the CMMC
Assessment process to receive a level of
certification for a given environment.
OSC Assessment Official
The most senior representative of an
Organization Seeking Certification who is
directly and actively responsible for leading and
managing the OSC's engagement in the
Assessment and who possesses decision-
making authority for the OSC with regard to
the CMMC Assessment. Source: CMMC
Assessment Process (CAP). The Assessment
Official must be an employee of the
organization that is being assessed.
OUSD (A&S)
(Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment). DoD office that
procures what is necessary for national
defense. OUSD (A&S) is also the owner of the
CMMC Model and Assessment Guides.
PA
(Provisional Assessor). Individuals who
possess the background, training, and
examination requirements as outlined by the
CMMC-AB (before it was branded The Cyber
AB). PAs were provisionally trained to conduct
Level 2 Assessments during the interim period.
--- PAGE 561 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 549
PAs are required to pass the CCP and CCA
exams when they are officially available.
Pl
(Provisional Instructor). Individuals who
possess the background, training, and
examination requirements as outlined by The
Cyber AB and were provisionally trained to be
instructors. PIs are required to pass the CCI
exam when it's officially available.
Pll
(Personally Identifiable Information).
Information that can be used to distinguish or
trace an individual's identity, either alone or
when combined with other information that is
linked or linkable to a specific individual.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST
SP 800-33).
plan
An artifact or collection of artifacts that
provides oversight for implementing defined
CMMC policies. Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms.
POA&M
(Plan of Action and Milestones). A document
that identifies tasks that need to be done that
details resources to accomplish the plan and
the timeline for completion.
PoC
(Point-of-Contact). The individual who
provides daily coordination and liaison support
between the OSC and the Assessment Team.
The PoC does not necessarily have to be an
employee of the organization that is being
assessed. They could be a contractor,
consultant, or advisor like a CMMC Registered
Practitioner (RP).
policy
An artifact or collection of artifacts that
establishes governance over the
implementation of CMMC practices and
activities. Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms.
Practice
An activity or set of activities that are
performed to meet the defined CMMC
objectives. Source: CMMC Glossary and
Acronyms.
procedure
The documented details for how an activity is
implemented to achieve a desired outcome. A
procedure should provide enough detail for a
trained individual to perform the activity.
Source: CMMC Glossary and Acronyms.
regulated information
A generic term for CUI, FCI, ECI, and CTI.
Also referred to as protected information.
remediation
Intended to address situations where the initial
Assessment's target Maturity Level score was
not achieved, but only by a narrow margin.
Source: CMMC Assessment Process.
risk
A measure of the extent to which an entity is
threatened by a potential circumstance or
event, and typically a function of: 1) the
adverse impacts that would arise if the
circumstance or event occurs, and 2) the
likelihood of occurrence. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (FIPS 200 (adapted)).
RMF
(Risk Management Framework).
RP
(Registered Practitioner). Professionals who
provide consultative services that include non-
certified CMMC advice. RPs are not involved
in the formal CMMC Assessment process.
RPO
(Registered Practitioner Organization).
Organizations familiar with the basic
constructs of the CMMC Standard.
scope
The scale or extent of what will be evaluated
for conformity, which includes those assets
(people, facilities, technology) within the OSC's
environment that are targeted for CMMC
Assessment because they interact with sensitive
information—for example, by containing it,
touching it in transit, or operating on the same
network as it.
Glossary
--- PAGE 562 ---
550 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
scoping
The process of setting or determining the
scope.
Security Control Inheritance
A situation in which an information system or
application receives protection from security
controls (or portions of security controls) that
are developed, implemented, assessed,
authorized, and monitored by entities other
than those responsible for the system or
application; entities either internal or external
to the organization where the system or
application resides. Source: Security and
Privacy Controls for Federal Information
Systems and Organizations (NIST SP 800-53
Rev. 4).
self-assessment
Assessing your organization's compliance to
the practice requirements.
self-attestation
Making an official declaration that something
complies with regulations without independent
substantiating evidence.
sensitive information
Information where the loss, misuse, or
unauthorized access or modification could
adversely affect the national interest or the
conduct of federal programs, or the privacy to
which individuals are entitled under 5 U.S.C.
Section 552a (the Privacy Act). Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP 800-53 Rev
4 (adapted)).
shared responsibility matrix
A mechanism that identifies the person(s) or
team(s) in the OSC or the ESP responsible for
the implementation and sustainment of the
technical controls, as reflected in the terms of
service between the ESP as provider and the
OSC as customer.
SPRS
(Supplier Performance Risk System). The
database operated by the Defense Information
Systems Agency (DISA) for organizations to
report their self-assessment cybersecurity
scores. SPRS provides an interim solution as
Glossary
the DoD phases in the CMMC Assessment
system.
SSP
(System Security Plan). The formal document
prepared by the information system owner (or
common security controls owner for inherited
controls) that provides an overview of the
security requirements for the system and
describes the security controls in place or
planned for meeting those requirements. The
plan can also contain as supporting appendices
or as references, other key security-related
documents such as a risk assessment, privacy
impact assessment, system interconnection
agreements, contingency plan, security
configurations, configuration management
plan, and incident response plan. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (CNSSI
4009).
stakeholder
A person with an interest or concern in the
success of a business. Interviews with them
provide an excellent opportunity to gain insight
and establish context.
standards
A document, established by consensus and
approved by a recognized body, that provides
for common and repeated use, rules, guidelines
or characteristics for activities or their results,
aimed at the achievement of the optimum
degree of order in a given context. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NISTIR 8074
Vol. 2).
subcontractor
A person or company hired by the Prime
contractor to perform a specific task as part of
an overall project.
supplier
A person or organization that provides
something needed such as a product or service.
supply chain
A system of organizations, people, activities,
information, and resources, possibly
international in scope, that provides products
or services to consumers. Source: CMMC
Glossary and Acronyms (CNSSI 4009).
--- PAGE 563 ---
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 551
supporting organization/unit
The people, procedures, and technology
external to the HQ Organization that support
the Host Unit. The affiliated assets with the
Supporting Organization may need to be
included as part of the CMMC Assessment
Scope, but the Supporting Organizations
themselves do not receive a CMMC
Certification. Source: CMMC Assessment
Process, version 5.4.
system
A discrete set of information resources
organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or
disposition of information. Source: CMMC
Appendices, ver. 1.02.
test
The process of exercising Assessment objects
(i.e., activities, mechanisms) under specified
conditions to compare actual with expected
behavior. Source: CMMC Assessment Guide -
Level 2.
The Cyber AB
Non-profit organization that oversees the
management of the CMMC program.
threat
Any circumstance or event with the potential
to adversely impact organizational operations
(including mission, functions, image, or
reputation), organizational assets, individuals,
other organizations, or the Nation through an
information system via unauthorized access,
destruction, disclosure, modification of
information, and/or denial of service. Source:
CMMC Glossary and Acronyms (NIST SP
800-30 Rev 1).
Glossary
--- PAGE 564 ---

--- PAGE 565 ---
Index
A
ACCESS 496
AO
assessing objectives 364
defined /29
artifacts 337
assessment boundary
and scope 282
defined 279
Assessment culture 453
Assessment framing
Phase | planning 458
Assessment methods 322, 336, 352
Assessment Objectives, See AO
Assessment Plan 462, 463, 467
assessment process
CMMC Levels 3/5
evaluating readiness 327
Evidence Validation 320, 321, 323
examination preparation 324
Gap Analysis 3/8, 319
interview preparation 325
preparation for 3/7
test preparation 326
Assessment Results Package 494
Assessment scope
assets involved 220
guidelines 3/6
validation 460
Assessment Team Member
responsibilities 162, 169, 447
tenets 452
C
C3PAO
requirements and benefits 1/54
responsibilities 153, 160, 172
roles 446
staff responsibilities 448
CAICO
CCI 165
organizations 157
responsibilities /5/, 152
CAP
4 phases 443, 498
ACCESS 496
Assessment Plan 462, 463, 467
Assessment Results Package 494
CA-RR 464, 465
daily checkpoints 474
decision points 489
dispute resolution process 503
Evidence collection worksheet 476
Final Recommended Findings 488
guidelines 475
hashing 495
key terminology 337
Limited Practice Deficiency Correction
Program 452—484, 493
non-duplication 46/
Opening Briefing 473
Phase | Planning 455, 456, 458, 466
Phase 2 Conducting Assessment 470,
47]
Phase 3 Reporting 49/, 492
Phase 4 POA&M Close-Out 499-502
phases 333
POA&M 486, 487
--- PAGE 566 ---
554 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
Preliminary Recommended Findings
485
reference documentation 334
scoring of practices 477-48]
CA-RR 200, 317, 464, 465
CCA
Assessment Results Package 494
helpful documentation 343
methods used 336, 352
requirements and benefits 1/64
responsibilities 162, 169, 172, 447
role in assessments 364, 365, 417,
463-465, 477, 478, 487, 493, 499
CCI
responsibilities 165
CCP
and FAR 52 377
best practices 208
conflicts of interest 209
consultant responsibilities 196
CoPC
overview 192
CUI markings 57
ethical guidelines 2/0
general guidelines 475
in-house vs. external 195
methods used 336, 352
on-site work 472
requirements and benefits 163
responsibilities 162, 169, 172, 197-199,
447, 449
role in assessments 7/, 200, 332, 364,
365, 367, 417, 456, 463-465, 471, 477,
478, 487, 489, 492, 493, 499, 500
role in certification 3/9, 320, 327
roles 193
scoping roles/responsibilities 216, 295
separation of duties 194, 20]
tenets 452
CDI
defined 64
Certification Assessment Readiness
Review, See CA-RR
Certified CMMC Assessor, See CCA
Certified CMMC Instructors, See CCI
Certified CMMC Professional, See CCP
Certified Third-Party Assessment
Organization, See C3PAO
Christian Doctrine
and cybersecurity 154
and federal contracts /82
CMMC
background regulations and standards
37
LRP drivers 3/
program overview 9
CMMC Artifact Hashing Tool 495
CMMC Assessment
general guidelines 475
in context 442
procedures 363
requirements 346, 365
roles and responsibilities /72
self vs. third-party /45
third-party /7/
third-party benefits 1/46
three methods 322, 352
types of assessments /44
CMMC Assessment Guides
applying criteria 369
as references 334
depth and coverage 350
NIST SP 800-171A 347
overview 348
practice structure 349
procedure 35/
usage 368
CMMC Assessment Process, See CAP
CMMC Assessors and Instructors
Certification Organization, See CAICO
CMMC Certification
basic requirements /47
Level 1 path /48
Level 2 path /49
CMMC Certification Boundary
and scope 282
defined 279
CMMC documentation
Appendices /34
Model framework and Assessment
Guides /33
CMMC ecosystem
authorities /5/, 152
C3PAO 154
organizations 153, 157-161
OSC 156
overview 150
Provisional Assessors /67
Provisional Instructors /68
registered or certified individuals /62,
165, 166, 169
RPO 155
Index
--- PAGE 567 ---
CMMC eMASS
deployment 45/
overview 450
CMMC Level 1
Access Control 379-382
assessment guidelines 4/7
CCP roles 4/4
domains 378
FAR 52.204-21 376, 377
FCI Assets 223
Gap Analysis 397, 398, 400
Identification and Authentication 353, 384
Media Protection 385
Physical Protection 386-389
Specialized Assets 227, 228
System and Communications Protection
390, 391
System and Information Integrity 392-395
CMMC Level 2
Access Control 423, 424
Audit and Accountability 425
Awareness and Training 426
Configuration Management 427
contractor requirements 229
Contractor Risk Managed Assets 226
CUI Assets 224
domains 422
Identification and Authentication 428
Incident Response 429
Maintenance 430
Media Protection 43/
Personnel Security 432
Physical Protection 433
Risk Management 434
Security Assessment 435
Security Protection Assets 225
Specialized Assets 227, 228
System and Communications Protection
436, 437
System and Information Integrity 438
CMMC Levels
identifying 3/5
CMMC Marketplace /70
CMMC Maturity Model
defined /20
CMMC Model
2.0 framework /4/
2.0 rulemaking and timeline /42
CMMC Levels /23, 143
contractor benefits /40
cybersecurity /22
Index
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 555
cybersecurity compliance /79, 181, 185
domains /25, 126
institutionalization 304
maturity stages 305
overview /2/, 138, 139
practices 127, 128, 130-132
taxonomy /24
CMMC Quality Assurance Professional, See
CQAP
Code of Professional Conduct, See CoPC
Commercial Off-the-Shelf, See COTS
configuration management 94
Controlled Technical Information, See CTI
Controlled Unclassified Information, See CUI
CoPC
best practices 208
ethical violations 207
guiding principles 204
overview 203
practices 205, 206
COTS 292
Covered Defense Information, See CDI
CQAP
responsibilities 445
CTI
defined 59
examples 60
guidelines 6/
CUI
access controls /00
Basic vs. Specified 56, 76
CCP responsibilities 57
decontrolling ///
defined 54
determining 70, 7/
disposal //5
dissemination controls /0&
encryption 98
LRP drivers 24
mailing requirements 85, 86
marking requirements 75—84, S6
media sanitization //4
NOFORN and REL TO /09, 1/0
proper management 65
protection guidelines 63, 296
retention and disposal guidelines //2, 1/3
sharing/transmitting 72—74
storage 93, 95-97
vs. FCI 55
CUI Registry
organizational index groupings 58
--- PAGE 568 ---
556 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
overview 57
cybersecurity
awareness training 92
configuration management 94
importance in organization /0
legal obligations 185
cybersecurity culture
implementation plan 3//
overview 303
quantitative framework 3/2
sustainment of 3/3
Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, See
CMMC
D
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
Supplement, See DFARS
Defense Industrial Base, See DIB
Defense Supply Chain, See DSC
DFARS /6, 32
DFARS 252.204-7012 33
DFARS 252.204-7019 34, 176, 177
DFARS 252.204-7020 35
DFARS 252.204-7021 36
DIB 2
DoD Instruction 5200.48 69, 108
domains
CMMC Model /26
defined /25
DSC
complexity of 3
risks 4
E
ECI
defined 62
Enabling Assets 279
enclave
limiting scope 291
Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service,
See CMMC eMASS
ESP
cloud-based 222
Evidence
acceptability 341
collection worksheet 476
defined 335
evaluation of 339
key terminology 337
methods used 336, 338, 340
organization of 342
Evidence Validation 3/7, 320, 321, 323
Export-Controlled Information, See ECI
External Service Providers, See ESP
F
False Claims Act, See FCA
FAR 15
FAR 52
and FCI 18, 20-22
CMMC Level 1 376, 377
definitions provided /9
subcontractor responsibilities 23
FCA
and cybersecurity /5/, 153, 154
FCI
access controls /00
accessibility within OSC 269
and end-user devices 283
defined 52
FAR 52 18, 20-22
flow to government 27/
identifying 53
information flow diagrams 274, 275
LRP drivers /7
movement of 26/, 263
OSC-generated 265
outside accessibility 267
protection guidelines 63, 296
RFPs 262
vs. CUI 55
Federal Acquisition Regulations, See FAR
Federal Contract Information, See FCI
Federal Information Processing Standard, See
FIPS
Federal Information Security Modernization
Act, See FISMA
Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program, See FedRAMP
FedRAMP 41
FIPS 98
FISMA 38
G
Gap Analysis 317-319
governance
defined 306, 310
Index
--- PAGE 569 ---
H
hashing 495
information flow 5
Information Security Oversight Office, See
NARA ISOO
institutionalization 304
Intellectual Property, See IP
IP
defined /2
types of /3
ISOO CUI Notice 2020-04 347
L
Lead Assessor
gaining access 459
responsibilities 162, 169, 172, 447, 489
scoping roles/responsibilities 294
Legal, Regulatory, & Policy, See LRP
Licensed Partner Publisher, See LPP
Licensed Training Provider, See LTP
Limited Practice Deficiency Correction
Program 452—484, 493
LPP
requirements and benefits 158
responsibilities 157, /6/
LRP
overview 14
LTP
requirements and benefits 159
responsibilities 157, 16/
N
NARA 24, 25, 57
NARA ISOO 25
National Archives and Records
Administration, See NARA
National Institute of Standards and
Technology, See NIST
NIST 26
NIST SP 800-171 27, 28, 346
NIST SP 800-171A 29, 347
NIST SP 800-172 30
NIST SP 800-53 27
non-duplication
defined 46/
Index
Certified CMMC Professional (CCP) | 557
O
observation 337
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment, See OUSD A&S
organizational culture 302
Organization Seeking Certification, See OSC
OSC
Assessment Official 445
POA&M 4856
providing access 459
requirements and benefits 156
responsibilities 153, 160
roles 444
scoping roles/responsibilities 293
submit RFA 457
OSC environment
access limitations 344
cloud services 247, 248, 25]—253
end-user devices 283
evaluating readiness 327
Evidence Validation 320, 32/1, 323
Gap Analysis 3/8, 319
helpful documentation 343
high level scoping 2/7, 2/8
information flow diagrams 274, 275
scoping 216, 219, 232-234, 236, 244, 281
sensitive information 65, 258, 261, 265,
269, 271, 296
SSP 280
system inventory 239, 278
taking inventory 240
OUSD A&S
CMMC Model /2/
responsibilities 15/7, 152
P
PA
responsibilities 167
PI
responsibilities 168
plan
defined 309
Plan of Action and Milestones, See POA&M
POA&M 486, 487, 499-503
PoC
in OSC 444, 445
Point-of-Contact, See PoC
policy
defined 307
practices
--- PAGE 570 ---
558 | Certified CMMC Professional (CCP)
CMMC Levels /30, 132
CMMC Model domains /3/
defined /27
numbering system /28
procedure
defined 308
Provisional Assessor, See PA
Provisional Instructor, See PI
R
Registered Practitioner, See RP
Registered Practitioner Organization, See RPO
Request for CMMC Assessment, See RFA
Requests for Proposals, See RFP
RFA 457
RFP
as FCI 262
Risk Management Framework, See RMF
RMF
overview 39
process 40
RP
responsibilities 166
RPO
requirements and benefits /55
responsibilities 153, 160
S)
scoping
and cloud services 247, 248, 25]—253
Assessment scope 3/6
assets in scope 220
boundaries 279, 282
CCP roles/responsibilities 295
CMMC Scoping Guidance 2/9
high level 2/7, 2/8
in OSC environment 2/6, 232, 234, 236,
244, 28]
Lead Assessor roles/responsibilities 294
Level 1 22/, 223
Level 2 224
limiting 101, 290-292
methodology 237
negotiation 233
OSC roles/responsibilities 293
process 238
separation methods /0/—107
shared responsibility matrix 250
SSP 280
system inventory 239, 278
taking inventory 240
Security Protection Assets
Level 2 225
self-assessment
best practices 186
defined /80
DFARS changes /76
drawbacks and limitations /78
interim rule /77
self-attestation
defined /80
sensitive information
access controls 88, 100
authentication and authorization 89
cataloging 258
cybersecurity awareness training 92
defined 50
identifying types 5/
information flow diagrams 274, 275
MFA 90
movement of 26/1, 263
proper management 65
protection throughout lifecycle 235
RFPs 262
separation methods /0/—105, 107
separation methods
Controlled Access 106
shared responsibility matrix 249
SPRS 177
SSP 280
stakeholder 337
Supplier Performance Risk System, See SPRS
System Security Plan, See SSP
T
The Cyber AB
organizations 153
responsibilities 75/7, 152
Index
